Indian Idols 10 contestants return to Durban this December with their new concert” “Indian Idols Reloaded”. Months after becoming the finalists of an Indian reality singing show, the contestants go touring to and all “SOLD OUT” international concerts, which includes two events in South Africa.  The South African concerts which took place this year in February were both sold out two month prior to the events. Salman Ali, Nitin Kumar, Ankush Bhardwaj and Kunal Pandit were unknown singers, trying to make their mark in an already competitive and cut-throat industry. But after their incredible performances on Sony’s Indian Idols Season 10, in which they were lauded as the superstars of tomorrow by big names of Bollywood including Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Aishwarya Rai, Randhir Kapoor, Kumar Sanu, Udit Narayan and others, these four contestants were catapulted into the limelight as well as into the hearts of their millions of fans around the world. One by one they took to the stage showcasing their talent, leaving audiences star struck. Ankush Bhardwaj who is suffering from an ailment that threatens his eyesight won first runner up at the Indian Idols 10 with his melodious and classic Mohammed Rafi songs.  The ever humble Nitin Kumar entertained all with a melody of songs ranging from evergreen classics to modern pop beats entwined with anecdotes from his journey so far. Kunal Pandit wow’ d the audience with his electrifying Rock star performance and his tribute performance to Michael Jackson during the Indian Idols 10 top 10 selection process. The most popular, and winner of Indian Idol season 10 was the young, melodious Salman Ali, with his high pitch range and oozing charisma. Salman was consistently giving magical performances from the very first round and got standing ovations for almost every performance. He is versatile in his own way. “Durbanites can expect an unforgettable evening with the Indian Idols and the timing is perfect as we gear up for busy summer holidays with friends and family” says, Louise Howell, Suncoast marketing manager Tickets are available at Computicket from R200. For more information on the show and other events at Suncoast visit www.suncoastcasino.co.za The event takes place on 1 December at the Suncoast Globe commencing at 5pm.