The historical Grey Street mosque precinct has been earmarked for a major revamp. This follows the purchase of the Madressa Arcade that adjoins the internationally recognised mosque in a landmark deal. The acquisition to the value of R18 million was finalised on Monday (11 November). In what is regarded as a historical moment for the Muslim community, the deal was finalised between the Juma Masjid Waqf Trust represented by its chairperson Advocate AB Mahomed, and the Porbander Educational Trust, represented by AB Moosa. The Juma Masjid Waqf Trust was the first trust formed in South Africa in 1916. The Madressa Arcade was owned by the Porbander Educational Trust that was established approximately 130 years ago to raise funds for welfare and educational purposes in India. Dr AV Mahomed, chairperson of the Grey Street Mosque said: “Today is a proud moment. It is a dream come true. The Madressa Arcade was always considered a part of the mosque as it was an adjoining property to the mosque. It also had the same features as the mosque. Now it is legally and officially a part of the mosque.” It was a smooth purchase and sale agreement as the same people built the mosque and the arcade. The newly purchased property will be renovated and redesigned into a mall that will enhance the precinct of the CBD and it will be a tourist attraction. “At the moment it is a trading area. We want to improve it. The plans are to develop not only a business area but also  an attraction for tourists to visit the mosque, market and the arcade. There will be a gradual upkeep of the area,” said Mahomed. The property is valued to be around R22 million. The mosque attracts close to 1000 tourists a month. Traffic in the area is almost 100 000 people a day. “This will augur well for business in the area,” added Mahomed. The great grandson of one of the founders of the Porbander Educational Trust, AB Moosa junior said: “The Porbander Trust is almost 130 years old. It is purely a charitable trust for education and was co-founded by my great grandfather, Moosa Hajee Cassim. “My late grandfather, AB Moosa senior and my late father, Moosa Moosa were amongst the longest serving trustees who helped to build up the trust. “As a charitable trust we made a decision to sell the property to optimise on our charitable mandate for education. We are delighted that we have been able to finalise a deal to sell the property to the Juma Masjid. “My great grandfather was also one of the benefactors of the masjid that was given as a gift to the community. The property is going back to its original home,” said Moosa.