The community of Isipingo is reeling from the shock and horror of a double cold-blooded murder in Lotus Park, on Thursday, after two mothers were shot dead at the corner of Phila Ndwandwe Road and Lotus Drive. It is alleged the women were on route to sort out final preparations for a church camp on Friday. The two women have been identified as Shireen Kalicharan and Brenda Naidu. Speaking to The Southern Star, Isipingo SAPS communications officer, Captain David Ragavan, said: “It is alleged that an eyewitness saw two men next to the VW Polo in front of him. 
He further alleged that he saw one male wielding a firearm at the front passenger window and fired at the window. The men then fled in the direction of KwaMakhuta.” “The victims were found to be two women from the Lotus Park area. They were fatally shot in the head and were declared deceased on scene. Police are investigating two cases of murder and the motive for the killing is unknown at this stage,” said Ragavan. PT Alarms Tactical and ambulance responded swiftly to the scene. Spokesperson, Dhevan Govindasamy, said: “Upon arrival on scene, PT Tactical, K9 Unit and ambulance found Isipingo SAPS already in attendance. Paramedics declared the women deceased on scene and they further helped to stabilise the family members of the deceased women who broke down at the tragic sight of their loved ones slumped in the vehicle. “Members of uMlazi K9, various SAPS units and PT Tactical members embarked on a search for the suspects who fled towards the KwaMakhutha area but no arrests were made. “There appears to be a crime spike in the area with two hijackings in two weeks where both vehicles were recovered; petty thieving continues unabated and there have been reports of theft of vehicles,” said Govindsamy. A close friend to both women who wished to remain anonymous, told The Southern Star that the community was shattered. “These are two of the most amazing women one could encounter. They were both mums and dedicated family women. Brenda and Shireen were actively involved in their church and were exceptional bakers. “Brenda was always full of jokes and humour. She was never without a smile on her face. She absolutely loved children and tried her best to help enrich as many little lives as she could,” said the friend. “Shireen was a hard worker. She was always well-dressed and besides baking, she also did massage and nail technology. One thing that stood about her is how smitten she was with her husband who clearly felt the same about her. Both women were very close friends and treated each other’s children like their own.  Their deaths are senseless and leaves a huge void in our community. They are sorely missed and deeply mourned,” the heartbroken friend added.