“If you want to see your son alive again, pay R100, 000 and do not involve the police or your son will die.” These were the chilling words a Phoenix dad received in a text accompanied by a picture of his 17-year-old son tied and gagged, with a gun pointed at his head, after he was kidnapped from his home recently, allegedly by a building contractor and supposed friend of the family. Fortunately, through swift police work and investigations the teen was found bound and dumped down a ravine in Cornubia. Two suspects have been arrested. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, the incensed dad said he wants the arrested suspects to be denied bail and they must remain in prison until they are punished to the full extent of the law.“I do not want these perpetrators to ever have the opportunity to do this to any other parents. I cannot explain how my blood ran cold when I saw the message and the picture of my son. I panicked. I could not believe this nightmare was happening to my family. My only thought was to save my son at any cost. I made contact with the kidnappers and transferred some cash to an account number given. Then the wheels of the crime started turning faster. I informed my family and we then took a decision to let police know. Marshall Security also came on board to assist,” said the dad. “My son was alone at home studying for his matric exams. A builder who has been working on our property arrived at our residence on the morning of the kidnapping. He took note that my son was alone and said he will be returning later for his tools. Later in the morning, a man in overalls claiming to be from eThekwini Municipality, came to the gate and requested to read the meter. My son let him on to the property and was accosted by two other men who rushed in. They held him at gunpoint and took him to the room where they took his cellphone and then tied him up,” added the angry dad. He said that the suspects made contact with him and took his son with them. “Police and Marshall Security worked quickly to help locate my son by tracking his cellphone. Signals were picked up in an area in Phoenix which was familiar because my builder resided there. One suspect was arrested after he was found in possession of my son’s cellphone. A second suspect was thereafter also arrested. Miraculously my son was found after he was dumped down a ravine. He managed to make his way towards voices he heard. Two women assisted him and helped loosen him from the cable ties. He contacted me through their assistance and the rest is history. He is a strong young man and he is coping well. Sadly, through this ordeal, my son has missed two exams. He possibly might not conclude his matric exams. He is a straight A student. It is a heinous crime that these perpetrators’ greed will rob my son of his right to finish matric this year,” added the furious father. Phoenix SAPS communications officer confirmed the incident and commended police officer, Constable SM Moonsamy and W/O K Kistiah together with Marshall Security for their quick investigations and arrests in the kidnapping case. “Investigations are on-going at this stage,” said Captain Naidoo.