Deputy Mayor of eThekwini Belinda Scott, unveiled Paddy Kearney Way in Durban central on Saturday, 23 November, which was also the first anniversary of Kearney’s death. The small pedestrian mall links the Cathedral and the Grey Street Mosque and runs alongside the Denis Hurley Centre. Social justice activist Kearney was linked to all three of these institutions until his untimely death exactly one year ago.It was the unanimous decision of the local community and all the political parties on the City Council that Kearney should be honoured in this fashion. The deputy mayor praised him for having been a mentor to so many activists Scott commented, “For me personally, whenever I feel overburdened or defeated, I am going to walk down Paddy Kearney Way, to replenish my conviction, and renew my strength, from the memories of the incredible sacrifices of this one man, because mine are so small and insignificant in comparison.” The fact that the street is filled with homeless people, waiting for meals at the Centre, worshippers attending the mosque or the Cathedral, foreign nationals seeking services, or shoppers visiting the local markets was indicative of the way in which Paddy, in his life, brought together so many types of people. The deputy mayor stressed that all are citizens of Durban with the right to be respected. Raymond Perrier, Director of the Denis Hurley Centre, spoke of the importance of continuing the legacy of Paddy Kearney, who in turn was carrying on the mission of his great mentor, Arcbishop Denis Hurley. For that reason, a Paddy Kearney Legacy Fund was being launched to encourage Durbanites to make a pledge to the DHC in their will and to ensure that its work for the poor became a part of their own legacy. Kearney had personally started the fund, leaving a substantial bequest in his own will. He felt sure that it would succeed. “We were keen to name this Paddy Kearney Way, because one thing was always true about Kearney, he always got his own way,” said Perrier.