EThekwini Mayor, Councillor Mxolisi Kaunda has condemned the killing of two people who were found murdered on Monday evening along North Beach, near Suncoast. The gruesome murders of Montford mum of three, Fathima BeeBee Muhammad,50, and  Kresen Chandiah, alleged to be in his 20s, whose bloodied and stabbed bodies were found strewn on the sand dunes near the popular Suncoast Casino on Monday afternoon, has left the Durban and wider community reeling in shock and horror at the brutality of the crime. The mayor has called for an intensive search by the police to find the suspects linked to the killing.The bodies of the slain pair were discovered by a man who collects recyclable material. He fled in haste to inform police of the grisly crime. The murder victims were found lying on their backs with stab wounds. Chandiah had a knife still plunged into him. Muhammad’s handbag was found near her body with her identity document. Kaunda expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the deceased saying the police should work around the clock to ensure that justice is served. “This unfortunate incident occurred when the city is gearing itself to host thousands of visitors during the festive season. As the city, we have developed a festive season safety plan to ensure that our residents and visitors are safe during the festive season and beyond,” said Kaunda. He urged those who may have witnessed the incident to share information with the police. “One of the issues we have prioritised as the municipality is to increase police visibility and installation of CCTV cameras in our tourists attraction areas, so that we can be able to identify wanted suspects and people who plan and commit crime in these areas,” said Kaunda.  KZN police spokesperson Brigadier Jay naicker said: “Charges of murder were opened at Durban Central police station for investigation. It is alleged on Monday, at 4pm, Durban Central police received a complaint of a double murder at the sand dunes near Suncoast and proceeded to the scene. On arrival they found bodies of a male and a female victim with stab wounds.” The relation between the two has not been confirmed as both families have denied that they know the other.The families have requested CCTV footage to piece together the last moments of their family members, which could also give a clue of their relation. Investigations continue. EThekwini Cluster CPF chairperson Imtiaz Syed expressed shock at the murders. He said that he remained concerned about the circumstances that surrounded the death of the two victims and in the area in which the bodies were discovered. “I am confident that the police will conduct their investigations accordingly. We also do not want the public to start panicking as we do not know the circumstances under which the victims were killed. Sensationalising the incident also needs to be avoided,” said Syed.He said that he was rather disappointed in the manner in which social media platforms sensationalised the incident, where people indiscriminately forwarded photos of the victim’s bodies at the scene of the crime.  “While the families were still coming to terms with the news of the deaths, WhatsApp groups and Facebook were replete with their photos. People need to be more sensitive. We have to watch what we get, and make an informed decision on what we want to forward on these platforms. We can’t have a community where the moral fibre is so sorely eroded,” said Syed. The DA’s spokesperson on community safety and Liaison, Sharon Hoosen described the crime scene as a no-go-area. She said this could affect tourism attraction in the area. “The DA in KwaZulu-Natal has issued a warning to residents and visitors to the province to stay away from Durban’s beachfront area at night, until such time as police patrols are increased. We think of the families concerned and extend our condolences to them at this sad time.” She added: “During the last two years, the Durban Beachfront has practically become a ‘no-go’ zone, with an increase in contact crimes which shows no signs of abating. This has coincided with visible policing including motorbike and horseback patrols slowly becoming non-existent, creating a breeding ground for criminals to thrive.” This murder comes just after the municipality launched its multi-million worth new promenade along South Beach, Point Water Front at the weekend. Sbusiso Mngoma, acting deputy head of Durban Tourism did however, state that the people who were murdered were not tourists and he feels that it is not for people to associate tourists to the matter.