Burnwood Secondary School was delighted to receive five brand new high-end desktops and a wifi direct printer, from Muslim Hands organisation recently. Discussions to donate computers started a few weeks ago between Principal Vanesh Gokal and  Imraan Roomaney from Muslim Hands who saw the need for pupils to have access to computers. According to principal Gokal, most of the pupils from Burnwood Secondary come from disadvantaged backgrounds, and every effort is made to enhance their learning experience.  The Burnwood family was delighted for the donation, and they all agreed that the donation will serve the community well with regards to human resource development. The function to hand over the computers was graced by Ward 25 councillor, Hassan Haniff,  Imraan Roomaney and Ahmed Khan from Muslim Hands, Vincent Chetty and A.R. Singh from the Parents Association. Roomaney expressed his ongoing support to the school and said he was proud of the steps it has taken. “The Fourth Industrial Revolution is here, and we all need to get on board,” he said. Councillor Haniff also expressed his thanks to Muslim Hands for the support provided to the Burnwood community. Singh  commented on behalf of the Parents Association about the wonderful initiative.”This is a very wonderful initiative, and the pupils will definitely benefit from this wonderful opportunity.” Principal Gokal said that the school’s IT specialist and maths e-learning specialist have already started planning the Burnwood Connect initiative. “Relevant content, and not just any content, needs to be created. This obviously makes it much more interesting for the modern tech savvy pupil. Pupils can easily get bored in classrooms. Hence, digital tech excites the learning process. Teachers are highly advanced and compliant with ICT in teaching and learning, the equipment donated will assist teachers to produce content to upload on www.ewriter.co.za in the form of tests, word picks, tutorials, videos, animations and voice recordings which pupils can now access at school via the computers. We also are grateful to Muslim Hands for ensuring all requests by the school were met with the exchange of laptops to desktops, due to safety and security reasons,”Gokal said.