A week after the arrest of the four men accused of kidnapping Durban businesswoman, Sandra Munsamy, two of them have hired former National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss, Mxolisi Nxasana to represent them in the case. It was alleged that the other two have hired a top legal firm from Gauteng to represent them. Recently, the Durban Magistrate’s Court banned the media from attending the case and from taking pictures of the accused because of the sensitive nature of the case. It emerged that the Hawks’ wings have been extended to probe the alleged involvement of the accused in kidnapping and trafficking of people to overseas countries. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said: “We’ve spoken to some of our counterparts not only outside of the country but inside the country as well as through Interpol, we’ve got reason to believe there is a lot that we can still get out of these suspects. “So the investigation is still at an early stage but the work is being done behind the scenes.” The men are facing charges of kidnapping, extortion and attempted murder. Munsamy was found chained at a house by the Hawks and other law enforcement agencies in eMalahleni, Mpumalanga on 12 November, six months after she was abducted from the freeway near Pinetown.The abductors, made a R140 million ransom demand, which was not paid. Mulaudzi said the Hawks raided properties in Honeydew, Mamelodi and eMalahleni. Munsamy was found chained in a room in one of the houses. Firearms and three luxury vehicles worth R3m were seized. He said having the accused abandoning bail would give the Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigations more time to complete their investigation. “We are also looking into matters that they may have outstanding cases in Mozambique,” he said. Advocate Nxasana requested that the state provide him with copies of the statements the accused made after they were arrested. The prosecutor also told the court that the state is awaiting confirmation of the nationalities of the accused from Department of Home Affairs.  The four accused were remanded in custody at Westville Prison.Their next appearance is on 20 January. Munsamy’s brother, Inderan Naicker, denied that Munsamy’s kidnapping had anything to do with dodgy business deals. He said Munsamy was badly traumatised.