A whopping reward of more than R20 000 is on offer for information leading to the arrest of the perpetrator who hung a pregnant dog on a tree with a rope, next to Gandhi Park last Sunday. The ghastly act has sparked the ire of the Phoenix community and animal lovers as well as animal groups, with all calling for harsh punishment to be meted out to the culprit. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) has called for witnesses to come forward and provide information about the culprits behind the heinous crime. Marketing manager at Durban and Coast SPCA Tanya Fleischer, said, “A few members of the public called in when they saw the dog as they were driving past. We do not usually collect deceased animals, but because this was in a public space and people were upset by it, Inspector Moloi went out to collect the animal. “One member of the public who had called in, waited for him (inspector) to arrive and met him at the scene.” According to Fleischer, the dog was a female, tan, cross breed and approximately three years old. “In addition to have been strangled, there were bruises on the dog as well,” added Fleischer. She said no owner has come forward to claim the deceased animal.
No criminal case has been registered as yet. “We cannot lay charges without knowing who the culprit is and no witnesses have come forward. The body was already decomposing, which suggests the dog was dead for a while and it’s body was hung up overnight on Saturday, for reasons unknown,” said Fleischer. Phoenix actress, beauty contestant and animal rights activist, Aalia Ahmed, told The Phoenix Tabloid that she reeled with shock and horror when news of the brutal animal murder broke. “I was shattered. I couldn’t believe that a human being could be so depraved to do that to an animal and more so a pregnant one. I have been calling for the community to come forward and provide information about the person who owns the dog and the perpetrator who killed the innocent animal. I want to see justice served and this kind of grisly killing must never happen to another animal,” said Ahmed. Phoenix Animal Care and Treatment  (PACT) spokesperson, Neeri Naidoo, said, “This kind of animal cruelty is absolutely intolerable and unacceptable.There is no reason to have subjected the dog to that kind of torture. I urge pet owners to safeguard their pets at all costs to prevent such gross cruelty and abuse,” added Naidoo. Meanwhile, in a separate dog related incident, Bruno, the dog who was injured when a firework exploded in his throat in Phoenix on Diwali weekend, succumbed to his injuries and passed away at the vetinerary facility. Friends of Paws, an animal group, confirmed the death of the injured dog on their Facebook page on 5 November.  Phoenix Community Police Forum chairman, Umesh Singh, said, “This is a reprehensible crime and the person responsible must be brought to book. We urge members of the community to keep your ears to the ground and blow the whistle on the person who committed this horrific deed.” Fleischer has urged anyone who has any further information to contact SPCA on 031 579 6501 and retain their anonymity.