I love the end of the year for a few reasons. I enjoy reflecting on the year that has past, and offering gratitude for all my success during the year. This year however, although it has been a super successful one for me, I find myself a little lower than usual and overall a bit difficult to express that joy and gratitude. Human nature tends to allow us rather to focus on all that has not been achieved or accomplished, heart-break, loss and disappointments rather than focus on all the wins in our lives. It is so important to constantly be grateful for all little blessings, because a little blessing to you may be a mighty big blessing to someone else. I am therefore consciously reminding myself of the power of gratitude and how through this medium, the way we view life, can be so beautifully changed. Therefore, be grateful. My Conscious Living Column right here has offered me tremendous joy. I have connected with so many readers, across KZN and have received so many wonderful comments throughout the year. I am grateful to all of you who have connected with me, and shared your ‘conscious living’ with me too. It is amazing how the power of communication and connection brings about a sense of inner peace and joy. It is also a time for family and friends to reconnect and enjoy a break together. Children are more relaxed after the stressful and hectic school year and the work environment should be eased off. Retail employees, however, are under pressure with extended trading hours and the shopping rush. It is therefore important to be able to strike the right balance between retail therapy and also not over-spending during this season. As much as we love to spoil our children and loved ones, we also need to be mindful of our expenses and bills that will need to be paid regardless of the festive season. This spending over budget, places financial pressure later on – the enjoyment of ‘partying too hard’ ends abruptly when the bills come up. The sadness of this season rests with those who are alone, or perhaps who have lost loved ones during the course of the year. This year I had lost my aunt and the sadness of her passing lingers on as we close the year. So many out there are alone, and for them the festive season is not all that merry. As loneliness is a difficult emotion to deal with, the suicide rate does increase during this season. Therefore, we need to be mindful and reach out to those who need a little extra care and love during this season. Reach out to the neighbour who lives alone, or the family that has lost someone during the year. Lend that extra care and compassion, it will make more of a difference than you imagine. Essentially, through all the merriment, take time to re-focus and live consciously. It is a great time to get in touch with your inner-being. I intend to mediate more, visit my place of worship and connect with family and friends that I have not reached out to in a while. Life does get busy, so make an effort to slow down. Reach out and love just a little more this season. About the columnist : Krsangi Radhe is a neuro-linguistic programming practitioner, time line therapist and coach. She is also a teacher, public relations practitioner and motivational speaker. She is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching.