EThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, led more than 600 residents on an 8km fun walk to cut the ribbon at the beginning of the new promenade extension and official opening on Saturday, 16 November. The launch was supported by MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube, MEC for Finance  Ravi Pillay, members of the eThekwini Executive Committee and councillors Nicole Bollman, Geoffrey Pullan and Dolly Munien along with Ukhozi FM’s Selby Mkhize, Zulu Boy, and Dj Sox. Steve Komphela also made an appearance that left the crowds screaming. Speaking at the launch, Kaunda encouraged all visitors to take their time and explore the beautiful city and tourism facilities in the townships, suburbs and bustling central business districts. Kaunda said the festive period is truly a time that we savour as it provides the opportunity to showcase our beautiful city and its endless offerings to local, national and international visitors. “Today marks an important milestone in the story of Durban’s beachfront, popularly known as the Golden Mile. It is important because it affirms the municipality’s vision of being Africa’s most caring and liveable city by 2030. The event also gives practical meaning to the ANC government’s commitment of investing in tourism infrastructure to boost its job creation capacity,” said Kaunda. Kaunda said the beachfront investments have paid significant socio-economic dividends, given the quality of public space promoting unity in diversity. “The investment made by the city in this project will pay dividends soon, as our partners prepare to launch phase one of the developments planned within this precinct. These developments include a 29 storey residential development, hotel development and a retail mall with a combined estimated market value of R3 5 billion,” he said. Kaunda indicated that from the start of the project  in 2016 to date, the city has spent just under R400 million on the project, employing 500 construction workers and in the process ensuring that R135 million was spent on sub-contracting, in line with our radical socio-economic transformation. “You will recall that during his State of the Nation Address, President Ramaphosa announced that government will invest R1.2 trillion in infrastructure to grow our economy and create jobs in the next four years. In line with this commitment, eThekwini Municipality will be implementing another significant project in January 2020 as part of our Inner-City Regeneration Plan. At a cost of R240 million, the municipality will construct an 800-diameter water steel pipe (approx. 5km) as part of augmenting water supply in the Point precinct and broader Inner city,” he said. The festive season is expected to officially start on 1 December  until 14 January 2020. The mayor has urged residents to enjoy the new facilities by keeping them clean and protecting it as they prepare to welcome the rest of South Africa to our shores. The city’s Metro Police has made special provisions and will enforce a traffic management plan during these holidays to ensure safety and security of all our visitors and residents and will be on high alert throughout the festive period especially on high peak days. The following will be put in place this festive period • 50 pool guides and 50 beach buddies will be recruited to ensure that all beach and pool patrons are kept safe.• Child minders will be deployed from 6am to 6pm  and every child entering the beach will be tagged with particulars of their parent or guardian in the event of separation to facilitate parent and child are reunited efficiently• Additional security resources will be procured through our Security Management Unit and law enforcement operating hours will be extended during the festive season. • In addition to our 75 permanent cleaning staff, 60 additional staff will be sourced. All ablution facilities will close at 10pm.• The beach cleaning services will be increased with 56 seasonal staff together with 48 permanent staff on a 24hr operation base. An additional 200 litter pickers will be appointed for the festive season to augment the staffing provided by Parks and Durban Solid Waste.