Animal lover and activist, Reshani Panday Garib who through her initiative – Animal Voice, rescues and provides food for abandoned and abused animals, appeals to members of the community to assist with donations towards these animals. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Garib who uses her own funds to assist with inoculation, feeding, spaying and neutering of animals spoke to The Phoenix Tabloid about her love for animals. She said that at the tender age of 11-years-old, she was already taking care of stray animals. “I used to find strays on the roadside and bring them home until I find someone who would take care of them. Today, I still rescue animals, ensure that they are well fed before handing them over to organisations that take care of abandoned animals. At times, I donate my own funds to various organisations that keep animals just to assist with food and other necessities. Loving and caring for animals is who I am and what I stand for,” said Garib. She said that Animal Voice was established in 2015 after losing her two dogs to cancer. Through this initiative, many animals have been rescued, put in loving and caring homes and given a second chance at life. “I saw a need to do something for the many animals with no owners and nobody to advocate for them. I work voluntary with a few animal organisations, I am unemployed and everything I do is with the income I get from buying and selling clothes. The money I get from this is not enough because of the amount of animals that need help, even other organisations cannot cope,” said Garib. She said that animal abuse was common and has seen many cases since she began rescuing animals in her own capacity. “Members of the public must be the voice for these animals and report abuse. Animal abandonment, cruelty or abuse is a crime in terms of the Animals Protection Act. I urge the public to adhere to these abuse patterns to prevent unnecessary suffering or deaths of animals. We must all get involved if we know of animals that are being physically abused. It is upsetting to see someone beating or physically attacking an animal, but it’s important not to turn away,” she said. Garib urged members of community to kindly assist with the donation of food, cutlery, clothes, toys and other items that can be sold to raise funds to be able to care for the animals. “Members of the community can also sponsor the inoculations towards a stray or foster an animal until we get them proper homes,” added Garib. To donate or sponsor towards Animal Voice, contact Reshani Panday Garib on 
082 454 3517.