Durban Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, is calling on police to search for, and arrest the perpetrators behind the cold-blooded fatal shooting of a 40-year-old municipal engineer at the Ethekwini Wastewater Phoenix Treatment Works, in Ottawa, in an alleged hit, on Wednesday. It is alleged that the deceased, from KwaMashu Township, was killed by two men who came to the local Waste Water Management Centre offices and asked for him by name. After approaching the men, and confirming they had found the right person, the suspects opened fire on the deceased. Kaunda condemned the killing and described the deceased engineer as dedicated, strict and skilled. “His death comes at the time when our country is facing a severe shortage of skills in the engineering sector and others. As a country, we are not producing enough graduate engineers which is worrying, and it is for this reason that we, therefore, call on our law enforcement agencies to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to book,” Kaunda said. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, provincial police spokesperson, said the deceased was shot in the head and succumbed to his injuries at the scene. Mbhele said: “While he was in the office two unknown men, one armed, entered the office and shot him to the head. He died on the scene, and the motive for the killing is unknown at the moment. It is subject to investigation.” She added that a murder case is being investigated by Verulam police. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) head Prem Balram, said paramedics were called out to the scene by the engineer’s colleagues who heard the shots being fired. “Upon arrival, medics found that the victim was fatally injured after he had sustained a single gunshot wound to the forehead.  According to his colleagues, there were approximately 15 to 20 people in the building when the shooting occurred. The deceased was in an office with a female colleague when she noticed through a glass window, two men walking towards her office.” He said one of the shooters allegedly knocked on her door, which the engineer answered. Balram added that the gunmen allegedly asked for him by name before he was shot.  Leader of the Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) and Phoenix PR Councillor, Patrick Pillay, said: “This is indeed a tragedy. It is a scary factor for the municipality that employees are being targeted by criminal elements. Whistleblowers who have information on corruption within the camp appear to be soft targets. The municipality needs to beef up security to ensure that employees can conduct their duties in a safe and secure environment.”