Ward 25 residents were left disappointed as eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda went AWOL on them. Kaunda was supposed to come and address the residents as part of his Operation Sukuma Sakhe (OSS), visit on service delivery issues at the Springfield Hindu Primary School, in Overport on Thursday morning. Standing in for the mayor was chairperson of Economic Development and Planning Committee councillor, Sipho Kaunda, who many residents mistook for the mayor. Ward 25 councillor, Hassan Haniff said that the mayor was held up in other operations as he was visiting six wards that make up the Victoria Mxenge Zone. Haniff said that the meeting was for the officials to listen to all the issues faced by the residents and come up with solutions. “We are here not to fight and be violent, but to find ways in which we can fix issues facing the formal and informal settlements. As residents, this is the time to voice all the issues you are facing,” he said. Residents came in numbers to the front to state all their problems and voice how angry they were that up to today, the municipality and government has not fixed their problems. Resident Sipho Goge said that since 2010, he has been going up and down fighting for the road works on Alpine Road, which is a main road to be completed. According to Goge, the city had started with the preparation, but then stopped half way. “The road is busy and dangerous. There has been a high volume of people dying and being hurt, including school pupils, because of the state of the road. We want to know why the department of roads stopped fixing it? What  were the reasons, was it the money or contractor?,” questioned Goge. Another resident said that their children are not safe from the environmental pollution, due to the road blockage that takes place especially when it rains. “When it rains, we have a blockage and our children play outside. We had asked the city to please help us, but nothing has been done. The Department of Health once came and also attested that the place is not safe. On four occasions, the children have been sick due the dirt found in that place,” the resident added. A number of complaints that were brought forward included issues with toilets, water, electricity and housing. The toilet issue raised disagreements as many residents were complaining that they have to wait in a long line and be counted like goats to choose who will use the toilet first. The residents gave the city until 7 December for feedback, or else they would take matters into their own hands. Councillor Kaunda said that as the city, they understand the community’s plight and concerns and they will take all the issues raised and pass it on to the mayor. Commenting on the matter regarding housing, he said that two weeks back they were handing over a fully furnished house in Mbumbulu and that the family was identified through the war room, which is still to be established in Ward “On 3 December, we will bring back feedback to the residents, on what the city going to do regarding their problems. Some problems might be fixed before that. We cannot give any feedback today because we need to go back to all the officials that you say were handling your matters and ask them what happened, why did they not come back and let you know of the outcome. It is easy to help the ward if it has the war room, because that is where matters are being resolved and individuals in need are identified,” said Kaunda. Ward councillor Hassan Haniff said that they are looking to launch the war room soon. He also expressed that he is happy that people came in numbers and spoke out about their issues. “I believe people need to be heard. What happened here today was a start of a great journey as we believe we will see changes and fruits of this meeting. We did not gather as politicians, but as councillors who are concerned about their communities,” added.