A swift response to information received by members of SAPS Bellair Sector team, led to the arrest of one suspect and a drug lab being shut down. Bellair SAPS spokesperson, Sergeant Pam Pillay, said on the evening of 15 November, Sergeant Jonathan Stanford, Sergeant Clive Perumal and Constable Ntusi were patrolling the Seaview area when they received information that there was a drug lab being run by a 32-year-old foreign national, who was renting a house in Hillside Road, Seaview. Pillay said: “The members immediately proceeded to the given address and found a male manufacturing crack cocaine. Upon seeing the police, the suspect fled the room and was soon apprehended on Seaglen Drive.” A search of the premises resulted in a large amount of drugs being found. “Around 300g of rock cocaine, CAT and ecstasy tablets with the street value of R100 000, were found among the equipment used to manufacture the drugs. The suspect will appear at the Durban Magistrate’s court soon,” said Pillay. Pillay added that investigations also revealed that places from where dealing takes place, are houses rented to drug lords. “An earnest appeal is made to landlords to ensure that proper screening of potential tenants are done in compliance with the Landlord and Tenant Act. Landlords are also cautioned that failure to take appropriate action against tenants involved in drug dealing, will result in the contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. Investigation will be inclusive of reporting to SARS for tax evasion, where necessary. Landlords assisting or having knowledge of criminal activity occurring from the rented premises, will be held liable under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act and investigated by the Asset and Forfeiture Unit, for receiving a monthly income and benefitting from the proceeds of crime,” Pillay said. Bellair SAPS station commander, Lieutenant Colonel Radash Ramchunder, stated that as a result of numerous complaints and concerns received from the community, we have intensified action against the perpetrators dealing in, and in the manufacturing of drugs, as this does not only affect the user but also has an extended impact on families and society in general. Ramchunder expressed gratitude to all members under his command for the continuous efforts in eradicating crime.