It is all systems go for the annual awareness Buddy Walk day, hosted by the Down Syndrome Association in KwaZulu-Natal. The event which will take place at Curries Fountain on 17 November, will start at 9am and proceed through the Botanic Gardens and back to the stadium. Mohammed Ismail, Association’s chairperson, said the walk is part of an international concept where the general public shows support for a person with Down syndrome or other intellectual disabilities. Ismail said this year’s theme is “Empower the Vulnerable. Leave No One Behind.” “People with intellectual disabilities, such as Down syndrome, tend to be exposed to harsh elements of life, whether it be abuse or the lack of inclusion in the mainstream education system. Peace, love security and respect for human rights are the cornerstones for human dignity and life, more so for persons with disabilities,” he said. Ismail, explained that Down syndrome is the most common and naturally occurring chromosomal genetic condition and is the largest single cause of intellectual disabilities. He said: “In South Africa, one in every 500 babies is born with Down syndrome each year. “It is therefore vital to raise awareness and dispel the myths that surround Down syndrome and to change society’s pre-conceived ideas and prejudice that they might have.” He said 25 years in to democracy, South Africa continues to struggle to build a better society and improved quality of life for all who live in it. “While we continue to make steady progress in honouring our constitutional and international obligations in terms of the National Development Plan and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, persons with Down syndrome are still excluded from mainstream society and this adversely affects their rights and freedom,” Ismail said. For the walk, the association has partnered with eThekwini Secure and eThekwini Outreach. Media partners include Tabloid Newspapers and Lotus FM. For more info, contact the chairperson Mohammed Ismail on 082 828 7589 or branch manager Angie Govindsamy on 064 167 0808.