Inclement weather experienced throughout KwaZulu-Natal this week wreaked havoc in and around eThekwini, claiming the lives of at least 14 people. Two of the deceased were killed by a collapsed wall in Amaoti near Verulam. The parents of Zilungile Nyangule, died while she and her sister were desperately trying to lift the collapsed wall of their family home. The deceased Nomathamsanqa Nyangule, 55, and Simangaliso Zondo, 69, were crushed to death as their daughters worked to free them from under the wall. When speaking to Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid, 19-year-old Zulingile said she will never be able forget the screams and the looks on her parents faces, “when they realised the end was near.” She said: “My parents screamed of help for almost 30 minutes. My sister and I could not help them because wall on top of them was too heavy.” She said they tried several means and ways to rescue their parents, but all attempts failed. “We screamed for help to our neighbours, but it was too late. When neighbors arrived, my parents were already dead. I feel bad that I could not save them and that they died in front me, in pain and screaming for help,” Zilungile said. The fatal incident occurred on Monday evening, around 9pm. Heavy rains throughout the day had battered the family home causing a mud slide and the wall to collapse. Nyangule and Zondo are among the 14 lives lost throughout KZN, due to the inclement weather since October. Zulingile said: “We were so close. They meant the world to me. We loved each other. I do not know what to say because we were so close and now they are gone. We are left without a mother and a father, who were everything to us.” The eThekwini mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, visited the family on Tuesday, to console them and assess the damage done to their home. He pledged their support in getting the family through this tough time. He said: “We are deeply saddened by the incident. We have put together a team from all units led by disaster management so we can deal with the damage. In some areas bridges have collapsed, and roads developed sinkholes.” Sipho Hlomuka, MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), has called on residents residing in low-lying areas to seek shelter on higher ground as more rain is expected. He said: “Our teams are on the ground and we are urging residents to be cautious and to double-check the weather forecast before making any long journeys. We appeal to parents and teachers to ensure that scholars utilise proper routes going to and coming back from schools.” Cogta also confirmed that 798 households were affected by the heavy rains and 19 other suffered injuries as a result of the inclement weather.