Sexual offenders have come under the hammer and during the month of October, detectives at KwaZulu-Natal Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Units, secured a total of nine terms of life imprisonment as well as an additional 370 years imprisonment against those who were accused of cases of gender based violence. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker, said that in the cases that were finalised during October, the victims ages ranged from one day to 53 years, whilst ages of those accused of these heinous crimes ranged from 22 to 59 years. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Most of those that were sentenced, were accused for sexual assault, rape, kidnapping, child abandonment and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. More than 360 arrests were also affected last month with most of those accused being related to their victims.”The five year sentence meted out to a 28-year-old mother who abandoned her child in bushes at Albersville in Port Shepstone, serves as a lesson to others that may be tempted to do the same. Detectives at the FCS Unit are pleading with women who do not wish to raise their newborn babies to use adoption facilities or leave their newborns at facilities that have been established for this purpose. Detectives are faced with too many cases where newborns are thrown into waste bins or left in bushes where they die,” said Naicker. The KwaZulu-Natal provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula applauded the FCS Unit investigators for their dedication in putting sexual offenders behind bars and bringing closure to victims of these crimes. “We urge victims of gender based violence to report their cases to police. The sentences meted out by the courts are very encouraging and is an indication that the perpetrators of these crimes cannot escape the full might of law. Whilst the wheels of justice sometimes turns slowly for good reason, victims of these crimes can be assured that their cases are in the capable hands of highly trained officials who are dedicated to deal with such cases,” he said.