Police investigations have intensified around the mysterious murder of two people whose bodies were found on the beach, close to Suncoast Casino on Monday. The victims have been identified as Fathima Bee Bee Muhammad, 50, and 24-year old Kresen Chandiah, both from Montford in Chatsworth. Their bodies were discovered by a recycler who raised the alarm with the police.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said they were able to identify the deceased using their identity documents found at the scene, and that a manhunt is underway. He said: “We were able to identify the woman as her handbag was found close to the body.” According to reports, Chandiah is a tiler by profession and his family said they were not sure how he knew Muhammad, who lives five minutes away from each other. Her family said they had last seen the mother of three, Muhammad, when she was heading to Suncoast for lunch at around 1pm and notified of her death at around 6:30pm. The eThekwini Cluster CPF chairperson Imtiaz Syed expressed shock at the murders. He 
said that he remained concerned about the circumstances that surrounded the death of the two victims and in the area that the bodies were discovered. “I am confident that the police will conduct their investigations accordingly. We also do not want to the public to start panicking as we do not know the circumstances under which the victims were killed. Sensationalising the incident also needs to be avoided,” said Syed. Police said the incident was unusual and that people should not panic as the holidays approach. Naicker said the motive behind the killings remain unknown as the murder weapon was left at the scene and the belongings of neither of the victims were taken, ruling out a robbery. Naicker also urged the community to stop sharing the images of the deceased, which have gone viral on social media. His sentiments were shared by Syed who said that he was rather disappointed in the manner in which social media platforms sensationalised the incident where people indiscriminately forwarded photos of the victim’s bodies at the scene of the crime. “While the families were still coming to terms with the news of the deaths, WhatsApp groups and Facebook were replete with their photos. People need to be more sensitive. We have to watch what we get and make an informed decision on what we want to forward on these platforms. We can’t have a community where the moral fibre is so sorely eroded,” said Syed. Muhammad was laid to rest at the Shallcross Muslim Cemetery yesterday(Tuesday) afternoon.