Fawzia
Peer, eThekwini Municipality’s acting mayor is currently in hospital following
an alleged poisoning during a caucus meeting today at the Durban City Hall. A
source close to Peer said that the incident occurred earlier in the day when
Peer drank from a sealed bottle of water. “At the moment we are not sure where
the water was sourced from but we can confirm that the bottle was sealed,” the
source said. By
4pm the mayor was still receiving treatment at City Hospital. “We are not sure
at the moment of how much effect the poison had. She is still getting
treatment,” added the source. The incident
that landed Peer in hospital was confirmed by the Democratic Alliance’s caucus
leader Nicole Graham on her Twitter page. Graham
tweeted: “The Speaker just announced that there is paraffin in someone’s water
bottle and told us not to drink the water. The Deputy Mayor just left abruptly
covering her mouth. What the hell just happened?! I think we just witnessed
someone try to poison Fawzia Peer. The mood in Durban council remains strangely
cavalier.” According
to Graham, the incident happened after the lunch break. She said that fresh
water was usually placed after lunch. “Peer was the only person to have drunk
from the water. We assume that Peer told the Speaker about the water, who then
asked presiding members not to drink any of the bottled water,” said Graham. The eThekwini Cluster Community Police Forum chairperson and close friend to Peer, Imtiaz Sayed, said that he was deeply concerned about the alleged poisoning. “Politics has become a dangerous game. We are really concerned about her safety. The issues between (embattled) Mayor Zandile Gumede and the ANC have become dangerous for the deputy mayor.” Meanwhile, ANC provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli said that they will speak to Peer once she is out of hospital. “We are hoping that she knows more about the incident and can help us shed light on the matter. As the ANC we are concerned that one of comrades has ended in hospital due to poisoning. However at the moment we cannot speculate on the matter until we have all the facts and have spoken to the acting mayor.” UPDATE : eThekwini Municipality Statement EThekwini Municipality
have released a statement saying that the Ethekwini Mayor poisoning has not
been confirmed and that they would like to refute allegations that Acting
Mayor, Cllr Fawzia Peer has been poisoned.
The statement said ”At this stage we can confirm that Cllr Peer complained
about the taste of the water she had consumed. For precautionary measures she
went to the doctor for a check-up. The water she consumed has been sent to the
laboratory for testing. We will await for the results from the laboratory as
well as her doctor’s findings before making any conclusion on the matter.”