Participants and supporters of the Durban SPAR Women’s 10/5km Challenge taking place on Sunday, 23 June around Jonsson Kings Park Stadium and Moses Mabhida Stadium precinct are reminded to arrive early and plan their route to the race, and where they will park. As always, there are a number of road closures that will affect access into the area. Race director, Brad Glasspoole said, “It makes it so much easier for participants to plan their routes knowing which roads will be closed, and where they can park. We encourage people to access the parking and road closures maps on the website and social media pages.” The 10km race starts at 8am and the 5km at 9:30am on Masabalala Yengwa Avenue, outside Jonsson Kings Park Stadium outer fields. There will be road closures due to the race and motorists should use alternative routes. On Sunday, 23 June from 2am, Snell Parade between Athlone Drive and the main entrance to Suncoast Casino will be closed.  Battery Beach Road, Masabalala Yengwa Avenue between Smiso Nkwanyana Road and Isaiah Ntshangase Road will also be closed as well as the southbound lane of Masabalala Yengwa Avenue between Smiso Nkwanyana Road and KE Masinga Road and Kingsmead Way and Eden Gardens Crescent. From 4am on the same day on KE Masinga Road, the two left lanes between Eden Gardens Crescent and Masabalala Yengwa Avenue will be closed and Masabalala  Yengwa Avenue between Argyle Road and Smiso Nkwanyana Road and also Somtseu Road at Masabalala Yengwa Avenue. At 6am, the westbound lane of Athlone Drive between Snell Parade and Masabalala Yengwa Avenue will be closed and the off ramp from the M4, Ruth First Highway to Athlone Drive, both directions will be closed. Roads will be opened after the last competitor has left that portion of the route and the cleaning team has ensured that there is no litter. Most roads will be reopened by 11:30am. Free parking for the event will be provided on Jonsson Kings Park fields KP3, 4 and 5 will be via Smiso Nkwanyana Road into Jacko Jackson Drive.  Once this area is full, access will be limited to emergency and official vehicles only. Access to Jonsson Kings Park fields KP9 and KP10 will be via Umgeni Road to Isaiah Ntshangase Road and through the Virgin Active parking area onto the fields. Parking on these fields is free. Alternative routes to access and egress to the Durban Country Club will be from the M4, Ruth First Highway, however, Isaiah Ntshangase Road will be closed at one  entrance to Moses Mabhida Stadium and the entrance to Durban Country Club. There will be no traffic at the intersection with Masabalala Yengwa Road. A stop and go which will be managed by Durban Metro will give access to motorists who will be using the Sunkist parking and access to People’s Park will be via Argyle Road onto a single lane of Masabalala Yengwa Avenue to Battery Beach Road intersection. Egress from People’s Park will be past Durmail using the back gate to Somtseu Road, Sasol service station near the station.