Last week’s cold blooded killing of  educator,  Sboniso Nyawose, at Masuku Primary School in Folweni, has sparked controversy after the Educators Union of SA called for educators to protect themselves by carrying firearms to schools. Union president, Scelo Bhengu, said educators should be bold and carry firearms to school to protect themselves. 
He said Nyawose would have protected himself had he been armed. “We are tired of educators being killed at schools. Schools are no more safe places for educators. If the Department of Education is not going to respond by making schools safe, then we want educators who have guns to protect themselves,” said Bhengu. Netcare 911 media liaison officer, Shawn Herbst, said Netcare 911 responded to reports of a shooting at a school on Gaze Makhanya Avenue in Folweni.
”Reports from the scene alleged that a man entered the school and fired multiple shots at the 48-year-old educator who was walking through a passage. The bullets struck him in the head and abdomen. He was assessed and unfortunately his injuries were too severe and he was declared deceased,” said Herbst.
Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said, “A case of murder has been opened for investigation by Folweni SAPS. It is alleged that 11 June at 9am, a 48-year-old man was shot and killed inside the school at Folweni. The victim was declared dead at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated.”
The MEC of Education in KwaZulu-Natal, Kwazi Mshengu, reacted with shock following the murder of the educator. “The deceased was allegedly shot dead by two random people who  gained access to the school. The school has a security guard officially employed by the Department of Education. This is very painful to deal with since I recently assumed office. On behalf of the education fraternity, I wish to send heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Mr Nyawose. We call upon the law enforcement authorities to investigate the circumstances of this barbaric and heartless act so that the perpetrators are arrested. I visited the family of the deceased to convey condolences and to provide support  on behalf of the Department of Education,” said  Mshengu. The Democratic Alliance has appealed to the education authorities to tighten security at schools.DA KZN education spokesman and member of Parliament, Dr Imran Keeka, said his party is deeply disturbed by the murder. “The DA extends its condolences to the family and friends of the deceased and also to those within the school community who were witness to such a horrific incident. The tragic occurrence has once again highlighted the breakdown in proper security at many KZN schools. “While most do have some form of security, the standard of protection often leaves much to be desired, placing both staff and learners at risk. The DA has seen this time and again during its oversight inspections of KZN’s schools. It is critical that anybody who is not recognized as someone working at or attending the school is stopped and searched. Clearly this did not take place,”  said Keeka. He added that the DA will write to KZN Education MEC, for a  full security audit of schools in the province to be undertaken. ” The findings must be presented to KZN’s Education Portfolio Committee within the next three months. We will also request that the MEC turns his attention to the fact that, in some instances, school governing bodies (SGB’s) appear to be entering into security contracts or employing guards without the necessary vetting or the required training. This must  be stopped. The DA remains committed to ensuring that  schools are safe environments for educators and learners,” said Keeka.