His death and funeral were as controversial as his life, as family and friends of slain Phoenix alleged gang boss, drug kingpin and businessman, Kalvin Periasamy (30), bid him farewell amidst the tunes of sombre Scottish bagpipes, gunshots in the air, family picture slides and prison gang signs, at the Pesco Hall and Woodview Cemetery on Saturday. Periasamy, touted to be the head of the notorious ‘Bloods Gang’ in Phoenix, was assassinated in a hail of bullets in the parking lot of the Gateway Mall in uMhlanga on Thursday. His killers fled the scene leaving Periasamy lying in a pool of blood shortly after he left the gym. Provincial police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said, “A case of murder has been opened for investigation by Durban North SAPS. It is alleged that on 6 June 2019 at 10am, a 30-year-old man was at a parking lot in uMhlanga when he was shot by unknown suspects. He sustained multiple gunshot wounds to the body and was declared dead at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the shooting are still being investigated.” Periasamy was out on bail for a murder charge.Mourners gathered in their numbers to say their final goodbyes with Periasamy’s family devastated at their loss.Periasamy was raised in Phoenix and resided in uMhlanga. As his untraditional red casket was loaded into the hearse, a group of alleged gang members gathered and performed a ritual in tribute to Periasamy sporting prison gang signs as done for fallen gang members. At the Woodview Cemetery, shots were fired despite the presence of police and security response members. A poignant moment during the funeral proceedings was cited as the message from Periasamy’s brother, Kevin, who is in Westville Prison facing drug charges. He was unable to attend but shared his sentiments, with the words, “To my dearest brother, my baby. I can’t believe I have to say goodbye to you today. No words can describe the pain I feel. If I could turn back the hands of time, you would still be here.”  Kevin and Kevin’s wife, Desiree, were arrested following a raid at Kevin’s home in 2018 where police seized cash, firearms, and an assortment of drugs.