Developing good relationships is a key part of succeeding at work, yet it’s often neglected. Do you ever have days where you keep your nose to the grindstone, churning out work and feel like slamming shut your door on anyone who dares interrupt? This kind of attitude actually hurts your own productivity as well as your organisation’s. Building good working relationships will help you become a more effective leader, boost your chances of growth, enhance teamwork, and make you a happier person. These daily habits will help you get there. Communicate clear goals and expectationsWhen you communicate clearly and follow through, you show you’re a trustworthy person. Set clear goals and benchmarks for what you’ll accomplish in projects and your overall job performance, and help those you supervise to do the same. Choose the best medium for your communications, too. If sharing a complicated list of instructions, share it by email or as a hard copy in addition to going over it in person. Share appreciation for othersNoticing others’ contributions, large or small, will give them a more positive image of you. If others are feeling constantly judged or critiqued, it will be difficult for them to engage in creative, collaborative thinking with you. Knowing they are valued will help them share ideas more freely. Sharing your appreciation also conveys a positive attitude, which exudes confidence in your team. Spend one-on-one time with team membersGetting to know co-workers will help you develop good relationships at work. The one-on-one time also promotes openness and collaboration. Go to lunch with someone from a different department, who might have skills that will be useful for a future project. Have coffee with a co-worker you haven’t developed a rapport with, and find out what you have in common. Just knowing you care enough to make this time will help break the ice. Address interpersonal problems directlyIf tension is brewing or you have a difficult relationship with a co-worker, address it at the source before the problem gets bigger. If you feel that a team member is not pulling his weight, voice your concerns to him and state your expectations. Keep your tone calm and professional, and give him time to explain his perspective. Through direct communication, you may discover that the real problem is that he doesn’t understand his role, or that he’s wearing too many hats in the organisation. Confronting the communication difficulty directly is one of the quickest ways to create good working relationships. Practicing these habits will increase your co-workers respect and and confidence in you.