The ancient form of yoga originated from the Indus Valley in India over 5000 years ago. The word yoga can be found in the Vedas (age old sacred texts) whereby a clear guideline of syncing the heart chakra to the body and mind is outlined. To date, in India, yoga masters still take to the depths of the Himalayas to practice this form of mediation, where breathing is controlled, allowing for easier control of the mind. The Vedas also describe Bhakti yoga (mantra meditation) whereby the mind is controlled through guided meditation, that focuses on specific syllables in sanskrit to bring about peace and inner harmony. Hatha yoga (the physical practice of yogic postures) and Bhakti yoga (mantra meditation) are described in the Vedas as tools that are used to connect with our inner being. In the late 1800s and early 1900’s yoga masters began travelling to the West taking this traditional practice with them.  More recently, yoga practices have become the buzz word in both the Eastern and Western worlds, with many taking to both the physical aspect and mantra meditation as part of their daily routine. The United Nations has therefore adopted International Yoga Day (21 June) as a celebration to promote this practice. How can you benefit from yoga?
I have always practiced bhakti-yoga, a form of yoga where mantra mediation is a part of my daily practice. Note, that I do not use the word ‘routine’ but rather believe that my mediation is a conscious call to connect with my inner being. I dedicate a portion of my day to chant sacred mantras which assist in allowing my inner-consciousness, to connect with the higher purpose of life. Through this practice of mantra-mediation, the mind becomes less engaged in daily thoughts that can often consume us and weigh us down. Being a part of a world that is filled with great negative energy, I have found that mantra -mediation assists in filling my being with positivity and therefore am able to consciously understand the true purpose of life, and eradicate negativity from my energy field. I must admit that although I have practiced 
yoga postures and have attended yoga classes, my commitment to this form of yoga has been swayed. I can however, vouch that taking time out to just physically align the body through controlled breathing and focus will work wonders for both physical well-being, and mental state. Yoga centres have become easily accessible in various areas. What is so wonderful about this form of physical activity is that even seniors can participate in a guided class taking on simple postures that will not cause physical harm (as in some other exercise routines). Yoga has also been noted for the wonderful effects that it has on children setting in the foundation to establish concentration, agility and discipline. Therefore, this can also be done by all members of the family as a part of the self-care regime at home. Mantra mediation is also healthy within the family circle, where the mantra reverberates within the home, swishing out negativity and filling both the physical  and mind-space with positive energy. This Yoga Month, why don’t you try it out if you have not already?  There is nothing really to loose, but a whole lot of health benefits that encompasses the body, mind and soul. Some food for thought here, 
feed your soul and the body will naturally benefit.