It is an event like no other taking place at the George Campbell School of Technology from 27 to 30 June 2019, the Rosay Winter Carnival is going to change the face of entertainment. The carnival starts on Thursday from 11am to 10pm and Friday to Sunday at 10am until late A space for everyoneHoping to bring Durban together, this family orientated event, the Rosay Winter Carnival 2019 aims to showcase the best talents at affordable rates. Our event ensures that we have entrance fees that are so low that it allows the public access to performances that would usually cost a fortune. We would like to afford the public opportunities they wouldn’t ordinarily have access to. Ensuring that all age groups are catered for, the carnival is sure to be relaxing and fun for the whole family. Not only does this great city centre venue mean the funfair is easily accessible from across the East coast, but it also has something for everyone. An event like no otherWith over 200 stalls to shop at, from food to crafts, designer wear and housing goods as well as make up, the Rosay Winter Carnival has entertainment in the form of carnival rides for adults and for children. We have two football fields, an outdoor cinema, a mobile ice rink, a petting zoo, selfie booth, skate park, an airsoft arena and an elegance only tent that will host Live Demos. With performances by Barry Hilton, Kyle Deutche, Mo Magic, Neil Green, Joey Rasdien, Deep Fried Man,Bash with Tash and Mo Vawda. We want you to laugh your socks off. A Braai off with great prizes to be won Gas Magazine is bringing the cars (Show Us Shine Us). A platformThe carnival itself will be used as a platform to give the underdogs a chance to showcase their talent, Rosay Events have invited talented individuals who are skilled but have not been given a chance to perform as we want to uplift their spirits. A Dream: A poetical tribute to the family of our CEO, Ryaz Rosay. In affiliation to our carnival, we believe that to ensure success in life, there isn’t anything as wonderful and soul enriching as giving back to humanity. This is why we have teamed up with Reach for a Dream in our quest of building this dream. Auctions will be held throughout the carnival over a period of 4 days and the proceeds of this will be given to their organisation. (Reach for a Dream is an organisation that fulfils the dreams of children with life threatening diseases.) The organisation holds a dear place in the heart of CEO Ryaz Rosay and his family as he has lost his daughter to leukaemia. A future Using funds generated we would like to create a bursary fund for underprivileged children. Humanity is the way forward. A company of togethernessRosay Events aims to bring people together in Durban through outstanding Entertainment and Ubuntu! Their mission statement is to make Durban, what it truly is, the best holiday destination for you and your family by providing truly incredible events that will leave an everlasting memory for you and your family. Dubbed South Africa’s playground with the best weather all year round and Rosay Events would love to show people what Durban is truly capable of. For Rosay, there is nothing more fulfilling then bringing families together and creating moments that become priceless.