Facebook is getting into payments in a big way. Its plan? To create a new global currency, a decade after Bitcoin was revealed to the world. The currency named Libra is the culmination of more-than a year’s worth of work and is being administered as part of a consortium, including some of the world’s other biggest tech companies. Here’s what you need to know about the Libra coin. What is Libra? Rumours have been swirling around Facebook’s cryptocurrency for months, but now the company finally revealed what it’s been working on. Mark Zuckerberg’s firm has released a white paper outlining the technical details of its plans this morning – with a full launch to come next year. The sort-of cryptocurrency, called Libra, is a big move for the company, which has faced two years of intense scrutiny over the impact of foreign interference and poor privacy practices. The new digital token will be built on blockchain and could not only be used to send funds instantly through Facebook – and its subsidiaries WhatsApp and Messenger – but also to make online purchases with retail websites such as eBay and Booking.com with fees being lower than those offered by standard banks and credit card services. Facebook hopes Libra, which is backed by companies including Visa, Mastercard and PayPal, will primarily appeal to the 1.7 billion adults who do not have access to a traditional bank or people that are impaired by volatile local currencies in their home countries. There’s backing from big financial groups Facebook is taking its coin seriously and it isn’t the only one. So far, it has sealed deals with 28 financial, e-commerce and other tech firms as well as venture capitalists – including PayPal, eBay, Uber, Spotify and Vodafone – charging each $10m (£8m) to join an independent body known as the Libra Association that will be based in Switzerland and govern the digital token. This move is meant to encourage trust in the payment system from financial regulators and users, who have increasingly been scrutinising Facebook its power and lack of responsibility. Libra payments will eventually be accepted by all the group’s founding members. This means from 2020 it may be possible to pay for Uber rides with the digital currency. Subscriptions from Spotify, and mobile phone contract payments could also be available through Libra. The result would provide a currency that’s available anywhere. The involvement of major financial firms like Visa and Mastercard may seem surprising at first since cryptocurrencies are typically seen as a cheaper alternative to these payment networks, but their involvement may be an attempt to keep track of Facebook’s currency – and have their slice of the pie should the currency take off with Facebook’s 2.38 billion monthly active users. Calibra provides a new revenue stream for Facebook Facebook will be a member of the Libra Association via Calibra, a newly created subsidiary that will offer a digital wallet for Libra and keep users’ financial and social data. Calibra has about 100 employees at Facebook’s headquarters in California as well as in Tel Aviv. Thanks to its close involvement in the development of the currency though, Calibra could become Facebook’s secret weapon. Calibra could easily become the world’s biggest cryptocurrency wallet within months of its launch. Crucially, Facebook will make it possible for non-Facebook users – through a separate iOS and Android app – to use Calibra. The cryptocurrency may be a new era of commerce and payments for the social network. It could be used to make payments between friends or family at no or low costs through the firm’s wholly-owned apps WhatsApp and Messenger. Facebook has already been experimenting with payments through WhatsApp in India and recently shutdown P2P payments through Messenger in the UK. Bypassing credit card transaction fees, could also offer a cheaper way to pay online merchants. While Calibra won’t be sharing financial details or transaction histories with Facebook’s advertising divisions, the firm is expected to take a small commission on merchant payments. Facebook, anticipating the inevitable worries about data sharing, has said Calibra will only share user data with its parent company and third parties when it has customer consent or when law enforcement requests information. However, Facebook does want to leverage its colossal database of users by making a simple way to send money between relatives. Bloomberg reports suggest the company will initially focus on the remittance market in India – where some 200 million people use WhatsApp. The country’s market for payments being sent home is one of the biggest in the world, with the World Bank saying $80m (£63m) was returned to the country last year. Why it’s a stablecoin Stablecoins seem to be the crypto sector’s new bet. And it appears Facebook is key to move into the emerging market. There are nearly 230 stablecoin projects underway of which 30 were announced in 2019 alone, according to Stable.Report, a website that tracks the “stable cryptocurrency” sphere. Bitcoin is notorious for being a highly volatile asset as its value is determined by supply and investor demand. But stablecoins are supposedly steady in value since they are tied to a basket of traditional real world currencies such as the US dollar. And stability is a key concern for Facebook since it is hoping to appeal to developing countries with a volatile local currency. In Kenya, for instance, 90 per cent of adults already use the successful M-Pesa mobile money system. To ensure stability of its own cryptocurrency, Libra will be fully backed by a securely stored basket of matching traditional currencies. These fiat currencies are set to underpin Libra to stop it suffering (or benefitting) from the wild value fluctuations that we’ve seen in Bitcoin. Facebook’s been interested in blockchain for a whileLibra was first reported on when Facebook announced that former PayPal president David Marcus, who’s run Messenger since 2014, would head a group dedicated to exploring blockchain technology. Marcus himself has owned Bitcoin since 2012, and has often spoken highly of its potential. And the company keeps looking to expand its team with more blockchain enthusiasts and experts. In February, Facebook hired the team behind a London-based startup called Chainspace and has been offering employees working on the project the option of being paid in the token, The Information reports. Facebook’s career page currently lists 28 job openings related to blockchain. These include legal heads, based in both Silicon Valley and Hong Kong; security engineers; product designers and data scientists. It’s been speaking to banking regulators around the world Ahead of the launch, Facebook attempted to get ahead of regulators. In the UK it has hired bank lobbyist Ed Bowles, who will join the company from Standard Chartered in September. The company has also reportedly been meeting with regulators in the UK and US to discuss the currency’s opportunities and risks, as well as money transfer firms including Western Union. Getting the regulatory aspects of the currency right will be key to its success, particularly in markets like India, which is proposing a new law that would make owning and selling cryptocurrency a crime – and punishable for up to ten years in jail. What’s next for Libra? Over the next couple of months, the Libra Association will develop and test the blockchain prototype with a view to launch it in the first half of 2020. The plan is to grow the Libra Association to around 100 members around the world that will oversee and regulate the monetary reserve. Given that the Libra Association is already made-up of some of the world’s biggest companies, it won’t be a surprise for other big firms to join the partnership. What will remain interesting is whether the idea gets the backing, and financial support, of Google, Apple, or Amazon.