The whole family is invited to ‘Make Yourself at Home’ when KZN’s favourite home décor exhibition, the East Coast Radio House and Garden Show, opens its doors this year from 28 June to 7 July at the Durban Exhibition Centre. A highlight on KZN’s annual calendar, this year’s show promises a local experience like no other with 10 days of non-stop entertainment. Exciting new features include a bigger and better Home-Grown Design and Food Fair, where local makers, creators, crafters and designers will showcase their latest products; where you’ll also find delicious local eats and drinks from an array of food stalls and bars as well experience live music from emerging local artists. Kids will be kept busy in the all improved Melissa and Doug play area where they will make new friends, learn new skills, enjoy educational activities hosted by the Magic Bean Foundation, and probably never want to leave. But that’s not all. Show favourites such as the Builders Pavilion will keep the DIY-enthusiasts hooked with the latest home improvement hacks and ‘how-to’s’ and also showcase cool new tools. And if its household technology you’re interested in, Hirsch’s will be on hand with the latest and best appliances for you to test out. As usual, visitors can expect to find exceptional deals, discounts and competitions. To the foodies and budding cooks out there, your taste buds are in for a real treat as Durban Tourism brings you Discover Durban Cuisine, with top class chefs sharing their tips and tricks to help you conquer the kitchen and impress even the most discerning pallet with your new cooking skills. If you’re more into the eating than the cooking, book your table at one of our pop-up evening restaurants for a culinary feast prepared by some of KZN’s best chefs. For our green-fingered fundis, gardening guru, Melanie Walker of Mel’s Treasures and star of TV show Gardening 101, will share practical tips on gardening do’s and don’ts and inspire you with her beautifully designed garden installation themed ‘A Garden Sanctuary’ at the main entrance to the hall. There’ll be many opportunities to shop the latest in gardening trends and leave the show with a boot full of new plants and a head full of new ideas. Those devoted to décor can expect to be inspired by some of Durban’s top interior designers, affiliated with the African Institute of Interior Design Professions (IID) who will show you simple and practical ways to bring the latest décor trends to life in your own home.  Design aficionados should expect the unexpected with this year’s Discover Durban Design installation, curated by renowned South African stylist, Claire Clark, in collaboration with Angela Shaw of the KZNSA Gallery. Based an Afro-Futura, the exhibition will highlight the immensely original work of Durban’s emerging and established artists and designers in a visual journey that is bold and brave. With local fashion and jewellery design featured alongside furniture, ceramics and textiles as well as exceptional works of art, visitors are invited to experience something completely new; that is edgy, dramatic and immersive and will make you proud to call KZN home. A first for the show and for South Africa is the launch of ‘A Tiny Home’ purpose built, moveable homes that promote energy efficient, sustainable living. These affordable and stylish downsized homes embrace the concept of “work anywhere, live anywhere” and visitors to the show will have the opportunity to tour one of these homes before anyone else in the country. Ever wanted to give surfing on Durban’s Golden Mile a go? Or perhaps you’ve always dreamed of ziplining across a deep gorge? This year you can with Tourism KZN’s virtual reality experience. Immerse yourself in KZN’s diverse culture with this interactive and fun experience that the whole family can enjoy. Everyone deserves a beautiful home and garden and with close to 500 exhibitors showing off their latest products and offering exclusive show deals and discounts, creating your dream home has never been this easy. Bring the whole family down and make yourselves at home, soak up the atmosphere and be inspired by the very best that KZN has to offer. For more information about the 2019 East Coast Radio House and Garden Show, proudly supported by Durban Tourism, visit www.housegardenshow.co.za  or find them on Facebook and Instagram.