Red Robyn, is a singer, songwriter and actress. She studied music and drama performance at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and later did her honours in music. The Durban based musician has always wanted to be on stage weather it was being part of the musical productions in school, drama club, singing in church, music or performance. Tabloid Newspapers spoke with Robyn about her music career. Tabloid Newspapers (TN): 
Tell us about your music background? Red Robyn (RR):  I come from a musical family on both sides, my family members were always in bands and touring making gospel and secular  music. I started performing with my electric guitar more frequently and have begun forging my own path in the alternative  music scene. TN: Can you take us through your music?
RR: My music is best described as 
alternative. I am influenced musically by RnB, pop rock, country and contemporary christian music. Some of my favourite bands and 
artists in high school were Paramore, 
Young the Giant, Mariah Carey and Hillsong United. TN: What has the main challenge for you as an artist trying to establish yourself in the Industry been?RR: It’s been very challenging being a female in the industry and people not always taking you seriously or thinking they can just push you around. I’ve had to be very strong and learn to stand up for myself and go after what I want. TN: What have been some of the most interesting parts about trying to find a career as a musician?RR: The most interesting thing about trying to find a career as a musician is learning about yourself. I think a career in the music industry will expose your weaknesses and force you to confront them. I think another interesting thing is the people you meet, they are always so unassuming as people generally are and they always form part of your story in some unique way. TN: What do you love the most when you step up onto the stage to perform?RR: I love being on stage with people who are as passionate as I am about what I do. I love the synergy that comes from that. It reminds me that God is real. TN: With regards to Zakifo festival, how has it required you to grow? RR: It has required me to grow in many ways. At this point I still don’t have a manager, so I’ve had to learn how to juggle tasks and manage my time wisely. TN: How do you as a local artist try to describe Durban’s music scene to outsiders?
RR: I think the Durban music scene is very diverse and extremely rich, I always say Durban hides the best musicians in the 
world because it does just that. I always describe it as very multicultural and extremely diverse and growing in that. TN: In the beginning of June you played on a stage full of renowned artists, how do you capture your audience? RR: With my epic dance moves. I think the atmosphere at a festival lends itself to people just enjoying themselves, and I  use that with hope to just direct that wave of energy in a good direction. TN: When was the first time you played at the festival, and how did it make you  feel?  RR: I think it was last year some time, I was at the Afropunk competition when it first came up. I was extremely excited because I had always hoped to play on the Zakifo stage ever since I attended the very first festival in 2016. I felt like finally my music was being recognised and heard. TN: What change would you like to see happening at the festivals in the next few years? RR: I’d like to see more local acts on the line-up and I’d like to see Durban start to appreciate the talent and the richness of culture and diversity that has always been right on our doorstep. I think the festival has done an excellent job at  evolving and catering to their audience. I think I would like to see more spaces being activated in the city through the festival. TN: What are your plans for the future, where are you headed ? RR: I try to take my gift seriously but not that I invest my whole life into it. I think many artists make the mistake of banking their whole life on being a superstar. I want to use music to change the world, I want to study and get all the knowledge I can to make life easier for people who struggle with mental illness like I have and with trauma and PTSD. I will be releasing my debut EP this September and hopefully will spend some time touring that project next year. I look forward to playing at more festivals and meeting more like-minded musicians and artists to collaborate with.