“It is just over 90 days since I came into office and during my inaugural speech I spoke of rooting out corruption. This was not well received and there has been a lot of resistance.” These were the opening remarks by Newcastle Mayor Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba at a special media briefing called for by the mayor last Thursday. The rot within the African National Congress (ANC) and its poor running of the municipality over the past few years showed itself as Mahlaba unpacked the contents of a preliminary investigation currently underway into fraud and corruption. If the report is to be believed, then it shows how certain politicians and their families benefitted financially over a number of years from the municipality through alleged illegal dealings. “I want to present a few things that have been uncovered which are subject to an investigation taking place. I am not speaking from the dark, we have substantial proof of serious offences and financial misconduct,” the mayor began. Mahlaba made reference to the funeral of the late former president Nelson Mandela in 2013 in which public viewing areas were being created with large screen TV’s in order to publicise the event. “The municipality invited companies to submit proposals. Only two companies responded with proposals of under R190 000 but it appeared they did not meet the requirements. “The process was stopped and a wrong decision was issued,” Mahlaba said. This supposed wrong decision was that two other companies, submitted proposals after the closing date and both were considered. It is alleged that both proposals were identical in every way except in name and each amounted to R994 500. He said that the contract was allegedly initially awarded to one company that then withdrew from the process and it was eventually awarded to the other. “Strangely though, both companies shared the same address,” he said. These, Mahlaba said, together with other alleged financial irregularities were currently under investigation. He expressed confidence that criminal cases would be opened against all politicians and officials who were complicit in any related crimes.
Grass cutting, the acquisition of play-park equipment and the Madadeni swimming pool were some of the other municipal projects also under investigation, according to Mahlaba. Mahlaba, who is currently facing charges of murder and attempted murder relating to the death of former ANCYL deputy chairperson, Wandile Ngubeni, said that this was “just a ploy” to discredit him because of his determination to root out corruption. Continued on page 2…