The gruesome double murder of an elderly couple at their home in Willowglen, Umkomaas, has shocked the community to the core,  with police making a swift arrest hours after the bloody killing, on Thursday. A 37-year-old suspect was arrested in the couple’s vehicle during his getaway on the N2 freeway in the early hours of Friday morning. Police spokesperson, Col Thembeka Mbele, said, “A case of double murder was opened at Umkomaas police station and a 37-year-old suspect was arrested. It is alleged that on 1 August 2019 at 18:15, a couple aged 74 and 78 were killed inside their home, at Willowglen in Umkomaas by the suspect. The husband was assaulted with hammer and the wife was strangled and assaulted. They both sustained head injuries and died at the scene. The suspect fled the scene in deceased’s vehicle and was later arrested by the police on the N2 freeway. He will appear in court soon.” Speaking to the South Coast Weekly Gazette, communications officer at Umkomaas SAPS, Cpt Sheik, said, “Umkomaas SAPS member, Cst Chetty responded to a burglary complaint on Thursday at 18:15. He was met by the Neighbourhood Watch chairman who informed Cst Chetty that the suspect might still be inside the house. Cst Chetty approached the house where he found blood on the doorstep. The blood trail led to another door away from the main house. The door was locked. Cst Chetty broke the padlock with a hammer and entered. In the room, Cst Chetty found an elderly male, in his 70s, lying in a pool of blood. He had sustained severe head injuries and was deceased. The victim’s wife and his vehicle were discovered to be missing and it was assumed that the suspect or suspects fled taking the wife with them. The house was in complete disarray.” “Information led police to follow the stolen car, a Toyota Tazz, on the N2 freeway where a male was arrested. Upon questioning the suspect, he told police that he had locked the female in a room on the Willowglen property. The scene was revisited by police and the female was found inside a room, deceased. She had also sustained head injuries,” said Cpt Sheik. “Forensics analysis is underway and the murders are being investigated with all exhibits being analysed,” said Cpt Sheik. The Umkomaas SAPS Station Commander, Col Mabida, commended members of Umkomaas SAPS, Hibberdene SAPS and Post Shepstone K9 Unit for assisting in the quick arrest of the suspect.