Patrolling Phoenix SAPS members have been lauded after they notched up a series of arrests of alleged housebreakers believed to be responsible for the spate of break-ins in the Phoenix area. According to Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, Constable Dlamini and his crew were patrolling the Fernham Drive area when they noticed a white Nissan Almera driving very slowly and they noticed that the occupants of the vehicle seemed to be observing the houses on that road. “Cst Dlamini and his crew then kept observation on the said vehicle and after a little while, decided to stop the vehicle. The members identified themselves as the police and requested to search the vehicle.” “The members also enquired as to where they were going and the occupants could not give a proper explanation as to where they were going or what they were doing in that area at that time of night. “Seated in the back of the vehicle were three men who were in possession of a black bag which contained a crowbar, a two-pound hammer, a steel bar, a screwdriver, black and yellow gloves, two balaclavas, one red and a second grey and a silver Okapi knife. All five male occupants in the Nissan Almera were arrested and all the items recovered were seized as exhibits,” said Cpt Naidoo. “The accused were informed by the members that they have been placed under arrest for being in possession of implements which can be used to commit housebreaking or house robbery. All five accused aged 19 to 33 were detained at SAPS Phoenix and will appear in court at a later date.“The members were praised for their good work by the Vispol Head Colonel G Moodley for their good arrest as it is possible that these criminals are responsible for most of the break-ins in the Phoenix area,” said Cpt Naidoo.Meanwhile, in a separate incident, Warrant Officer Pahlad and his crew were patrolling the Hemside area when they stopped a man and requested to search him. “Upon searching the 26-year-old man, they found a red pliers and a red screwdriver in his possession. The man could not give the police an explanation as to what he was doing with the said tools and was subsequently arrested for being in possession of implements which could be used to commit housebreaking,” said Cpt Naidoo. Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, said, “Every arrest made is welcomed and we applaud police for their efforts in combatting crime in the area. We must work together as a community to clamp down on crime and criminals.”