The city’s Human Settlement Department says that it will build about 74 units for people living in the Cato Crest informal settlement. According to Ward 101 Councillor Mkhipheni Ngiba, the recipients will be chosen from a database and selection will be based on how many years that they have been living in the area. He said that the housing project was “one of many” developments in store for the community of Cato Crest. “I urge community members to take care of these houses and not sell them,” he pleaded. “A lot of time and money will be spent trying to ensure that they get decent and safe homes for their families.”   He urged residents to remain patient as he will regularly notify them of developments. The eThekwini Municipality has set aside R3.1 billion to rehabilitate 293 houses over 10 years, which translates to over 4 000 township houses built before 1994 being renovated or rebuilt. The project will look at either demolishing and then rebuilding or renovating the two or four roomed houses into standard houses.  Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said: “This phase of the ongoing housing programme in Cato Crest is called iNtuthuku Junction, where 74 houses are being provided and these should be complete in 24 months. There are also several other housing projects that are in the pipeline in the Cato Manor precinct area.   “Community engagements on these projects will be conducted as the planning of these projects progresses. In the meantime, incremental services including the electrification and provision of water and sanitation services are being carried out for those still living in informal structures,” said Mayisela.   Several townships will be included in the project. They have been identified as uMlazi, Inanda, oThongathi and KwaMashu. Regarding the project in uMlazi, Ward 85 Councillor Thembelihle Delange confirmed that 10 houses are currently being refurbished and that the Human Settlements Unit has set aside over R1 million for this project alone.   Delange said that while the project began in May, it was stopped due to “challenges” with the local forum committees.  “There are meetings every week to find resolutions to the matter and we assure the community that work will resume soon. I urge them to be patient with the processes that are currently taking place,” said Delange.