A businessman was pistol-whipped and two security guards were robbed by armed robbers who struck a business in Springfield Park, on Sunday night. According to Blue Security community and media liaison officer Andreas Mathios, the incident was one of at least three business armed robberies reported to Blue Security at the weekend. Mathios said, “Five armed suspects targeted the businessman while he was busy locking up the premises at around 8:10pm. The suspects held up the businessman and two security guards robbing them of their cellphones, a wallet, shop keys and cash. They assaulted the client with the butt of a firearm, injuring him on his head before fleeing on foot. “ER24 paramedics arrived and treated the businessman at the scene and he then drove himself to hospital for further medical attention. A Metro police officer later recovered the businessman’s cellphone at an undisclosed location in Springfield Park,” he said. Armed robbers also targeted a business in New Germany at around 6am on Monday morning. “A gang of six armed suspects arrived in a white Toyota Etios and held up the onsite security guard at gunpoint. They forced open the driveway gate and proceeded to tie up the security guard. One suspect stayed with the security guard while the other suspects kicked in the main entrance door to the business and ransacked the premises,” Mathios said. “The suspects fled with nine computers and flatscreens. No injuries were reported,” he said. Mathios added that a gang of armed suspects driving a Toyota Etios of unknown colour and registration robbed a business premises in Umbilo at around 11:15pm on Saturday night. Three armed suspects entered the business premises and held up staff and customers at gunpoint before grabbing an undisclosed sum of cash from the tills. They robbed staff members and customers of their cellphones and cash,” he said. “The suspects also stole one of the customer’s vehicles. No injuries were reported. Umbilo SAPS attended the scene of the crime.