Veteran community activist, Dr Ahmed Vally Mahomed has hung up his hat at the Islamic Burial Council (IBC). The long standing member of the IBC resigned after 20 years, serving the organisation as vice-chairman for the last five years.
 
Mahomed resigned from the council which serves to administer cemeteries handed over to them by the municipality as well as to communicate the needs of various Muslim burial societies to government departments and hospitals. His resignation was due to his ailing health and restricted mobility. Mahomed’s departure was followed by the resignation of two other executive members at the Islamic Burial Council — former treasurer Ahmed Ebrahim, who has been with the council for the last 15 years. He said that he resigned because of work pressure.  Former chairperson, Ahmed Paruk, who has served at the IBC since 1998, resigned to dedicate more time to his business.  Mahomed has been involved in various types of community work for the last 40 years. He has served as chairperson of the Shotokan Karate International South Africa Trust (Skisa), founder and patron of the Dennis Hurley Centre, chairperson of finance at the 1860 Legacy Foundation as well as chief trustee at the Grey Street Jumma Musjid. The community activist is also the recipient of several local and international awards, including the Lifetime Achiever Award from the Skisa Trust. Mahomed describes his departure as a period in which he wishes to look after his health by cutting down on some of the work that he does.   “It has been a dignity and honour to serve the community. I have been involved in community work for over 40 years and reached a stage where I need to pay more attention to my health,” said Mahomed. “I feel it is time to hand over the reins to the younger generation as it is important for them to get involved in sowing into the good of humanity.”   Former chairperson Paruk said that during his time at the organisation, the council formed a “good understanding” with government departments and they now have a solid foundation of cemeteries which should secure them for the next 15 years.