In recognition of his visionary and sterling services to the community and for the second year running, Brandon Pillay was bestowed with the Visionary Man of Valour Award.
 
Every year, Panache Promotions and Events hosts a spectacular awards function where they pay homage to great men of valour. This year’s award function took place at the iZulu Theatre, Sibaya on Friday, 16 August where Pillay received the Visionary Man of Valour Award. This was awarded to him for being a visionary in KZN 
 
PIllay said, “When Panache called to tell me that I have been selected to receive the Visionary Man of Valour Award, I was totally surprised. I did not expect it at all. To know that my work within the community is gaining recognition is truly humbling. “I am and will always remain a champion of the poor. My every decision taken in my work is based on how it will benefit the poor. I continue to serve the most indigent and  marginalised groupings within our city. I do this with pride and honour. I am happy only when the poor are happy.”
 
It is this visionary leadership that led Panache to selecting Pillay to receive the award. Elaborating on the traits of the awardee selected for the Visionary award, Farzama Mayat from Panache said, “The aim of the Visionary Man of Valour Award is to bring together powerful and influential men who have succeeded in their professional and personal lives and who embody the qualities of leadership active, creative and integrative efforts in achieving success at a personal, national and regional level.”
 
Mayat hailed Pillay as a leader who unapologetically advocates for the empowerment of women and youth in the mainstream economy through skills and enterprise development. “Pillay has made tremendous strides within our city. His passion and commitment are unmatched. His vision has many times become a reality,” Mayat said. Pillay started his community activism in Bayview at the age of 18 under the mentorship of the late Prof Fatima Meer and Prof Ashwin Desai. He became the chairperson of the Bayview Flats Residents Association which was established in 1999 and this year, celebrates 20 years. At the helm of his community involvement and activism was the promotion of human rights and the development and protection of the poorest of the poor. He has served many organisations over the years and continues to serve in the position of chairperson of the Bayview Community Policing Forum and Bayview Civic Association. Pillay said he dedicated his award to the community of Bayview but mainly the women of Bayview, who have always been the frontline of every struggle.