Armed robbers shot a pensioner in his foot during a home invasion in Berea on Friday afternoon. Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios said the security firm received a panic alarm activation from the premises at around 1.55pm. “A gang of armed robbers forced their way into the family home by breaking down a security gate on the back door. One of the suspects, who was wearing a balaclava, accosted the domestic worker while she was having her lunch in the garage as the other four suspects were forcing their way into the house,” Mathios said. Mathios said the one suspect forced the domestic worker to lie on the ground. She reported hearing the screams of the 73 year old homeowner as the other four gang members accosted him in  the passage of his home. “A scuffle broke out during the confrontation with the homeowner who was attempting to protect his wife. During the scuffle, a suspect fired a shot which hit the homeowner in his foot. He also sustained laceration injuries when he put up his arms to defend himself against his assailants,” Mathios said. He added, “The suspects then brought the domestic worker and the gardener into the house and forced everyone to lie on the floor. While one of the suspects held the victims captive at gunpoint, the other suspects took the homeowner’s car keys and unsuccessfully attempted to start the car.“ Mathios said apart from jewellery, which the suspects had ripped from the homeowner’s neck and cellphones stolen from the gardener and domestic worker, the gang fled the scene without taking any other valuables. Paramedics arrived at the scene and transported the injured man to hospital for treatment for what appears to be a superficial bullet wound and a trauma debriefer from a local neighbourhood watch group attended the scene of the crime. Mathios advised residents to ensure external security measures are put in place on their properties for an early warning system. “We advise residents to install external beams and CCTV surveillance cameras on their properties as these are strong deterrents to criminals because the risk of being caught is far greater. These security measures also importantly give you an early warning system and buy time to lock yourself in a safe room in the house if an intruder does venture onto the premises,” Mathios said.