A gardener suffered brutal stab wounds at the hands of a ruthless gang of armed robbers who attacked him during a house robbery in Montclair  last week. Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios said the gardener, who had been repeatedly stabbed during the attack, managed to flag down an armed response vehicle that was patrolling the neighbourhood.   “A gang of three suspects armed with knives gained entry into the property and entered the outbuilding. They accosted the gardener who was working alone on the premises and stabbed him repeatedly. Our officers immediately stopped to assist the gardener, who had sustained multiple stab wounds to his chest and lower body,” Mathios said. Mathios said the officers flagged down a provincial ambulance that was driving through the area. “The provincial paramedics assisted the victim and transported him to hospital for further medical attention. It is unclear at this stage whether the suspects stole anything from the premises.” Mathios said. SAPS were alerted to the scene of the crime. Mathios advised home owners to regularly brief domestic staff on security procedures and to ensure that they have access to a panic button or a remote panic button, especially when they are working alone. “We strongly advise home owners to regularly speak to domestic staff about home security and to point out the panic buttons in the house so that they will know exactly what to do in an emergency. Ensure that your staff have emergency numbers for an ambulance and your security firm saved on their cellphones and also keep these numbers readily available in an easy to access place in the home,” Mathios said. “Domestic workers also need to be vigilant when stepping outside to hang up washing as we have had cases where suspects have been lying in wait to ambush domestic workers the moment they go outside. It’s also important to remind domestic workers to keep security gates and doors locked when they are working in the house during the day,” he said. In a separate incident, a gang of five suspects forced their way into a home in Woodhaven in broad daylight at around 12.34pm last Saturday. “The gang of five suspects, at least one of them armed with a firearm, gained entry into the property by derailing the driveway gate and then forcing open a security gate with a crowbar. They accosted the resident in the lounge and robbed her of jewellery before ransacking the house. The gang stole laptops, a television and other valuables and fled in a white Toyota Etios with tinted windows. No injuries were reported,” Mathios said. Members of Montclair SAPS attended the scene of the crime.