Families, friends, relatives and locals gathered in their numbers on Thursday to bid farewell to slain security response officer, Saiershen Deon Pillay, 20, who was found with a fatal gunshot wound in Isipingo Beach, last Saturday. Pillay, a response officer for local security company, Alpha Alarms, was found dead in the early hours of Saturday morning at Rivermouth Beach along Beach Road.
Police spokesperson, Lt Col Thulani Zwane, said, “On 3 August at about 2.20am, a 20-year-old male was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head on River Mouth Beach Road in Isipingo Beach. A case of murder was opened at Isipingo police station for investigation.” According to reports, Pillay’s dad, a seasoned police officer with the Durban Flying Squad, responded to the scene once informed of his son’s death and was shattered to find his son sprawled face up on the ground with his arms spread out. Alpha Alarms spokesperson, Seshin Govender, said: “Saiershen was found a distance from his response vehicle. The car doors were open and the car was idling. Alpha Alarms response officers who responded to the scene were left heavily traumatised after seeing their colleague killed in such a brutal manner and had to undergo trauma counselling. “Saiershen, was recently employed by Alpha Alarms and had responded to a call-out together with police on Beach Road. Following the call-out and an all clear scene, police departed but Saiershen remained. The circumstances surrounding his fatal shooting is unknown and under police investigation,” said Govender. He added that Saiershen was young but passionate about crimefighting. “He yearned to follow in his dad’s footsteps and was garnering experience in his journey to becoming a police officer. “In his short period at Alpha Alarms, he impacted many lives in the community he served and protected and the colleagues he worked with. We mourn with his beloved family over his tragic passing and wait on police to find the perpetrator responsible for this heinous killing.” Pillay leaves behind his parents and two younger siblings.