Power team consisting of Barry Hughes, Gus Palmer and Guy Hankinson of the Round Table Natal North Coast together with The Sunflower Fund’s Allison Ekstrand and Elisha Parbhoodeen from Pick n Pay are all set for one of Durban’s long standing and well-loved calendar events, the Annual Pick n Pay 5km Fun Run / Walk in support of The Sunflower Fund. The event takes place on Sunday, 15 September at 9.30am.   Allison Ekstrand of  The Sunflower Fund said the entry fee is R70 per person and includes a 2019 Sunflower TOPE (Tube of Hope). “The run and walk starts at the amphitheatre in front of Suncoast and runs along the boardwalk to the Durban Spa Vacation Resort and back. Pre-registration is strongly recommended. The Sunflower Fund in KZN is further appealing to the public to register as blood stem cell donors at the event. Those interested should please visit The Sunflower Fund registration tent at least an hour before consuming any food and beverage.” she said.   Ekstrand said, pre-registration takes place at the Pick n Pay Hyper Durban North Customer Service Desk on Saturday, 7 and 14 September between 10am to 5pm and at the Suncoast Amphitheatre on Saturday, 14 September, from 1pm to 3pm and Sunday, 15 September, from 7.30am to 9.00am. “Prize-giving will take place directly after the race and exciting lucky draw prizes will be awarded. A prize will be also awarded to the biggest corporate and school entry. A number of celebrities will also be lending their support by signing Tope’s at the event where you can also have your photo taken with them. “People of all ages and fitness levels are encouraged to participate as all funds raised will enable The Sunflower Fund to create awareness and education about blood stem cell donation, recruit more blood stem cell donors, grow the patient support fund and maintain a registry of committed donors. This in turn means greater hope of life for patients who are diagnosed with life-threatening blood diseases and who are in need of a blood stem cell transplant from a matching unrelated donor.” she added.
 
For event details, please contact The Sunflower Fund KZN office on 031 266 1148 or email kzn@sunflowerfund.org. For online registrations visit www.webtickets.co.za .