Schools are invited to enter The Sunflower Fund’s School Competition which is part of their  annual Sunflower Day campaign, that started 16 years ago. The campaign, which is anchored by the sale of the Tube of Hope (TOPE), a multi-purpose accessory, is aimed at raising funds for the recruitment of blood stem cell donors to give the hope of cure to patients diagnosed with life-threatening blood diseases like leukaemia who are in need of a life-saving stem cell transplant. The school competition requires schools to get involved in celebrating Sunflower Day, and the top three winning schools will win a share of more than R30 000 worth of prizes which includes cash, vouchers and a trophy sponsored by Pick ‘n Pay, Van Schaik Book stores, Wolf Trophies and engravers, BIC and Living Maths to name a few. Kim Webster, head of communications at The Sunflower Fund said, the competition closes on Sunflower Day – 20 September and submissions will the evaluated by an independent judging panel based on a criteria which is as follows;  • Number of topes bought in relation to number of learners at the school • Gees’ displayed by the school in their celebrations on the day. The Topes are currently on sale at Pick n Pay stores nationwide at R30 and selected independent pharmacies and online at Zando. Webster said  the design of the Tope is inspired by the coming together of various African cultures, bringing hope of finding their life-saving match to patients in need of a stem cell transplant. It comes in six vibrant colours, each symbolising hope and depicting ‘Hope tags’. “The Hope tags are a series of hash tags that will be used throughout the campaign as labels that unite and empower us, rather than the divisive labels that society has become accustomed to. Get your favourite hope tag colour and make a statement in support of individuals with blood diseases.Blue – ConfidentPink – CourageousYellow – OptimisticPurple – SelflessGreen –  StrongOrange – Brave She said, all funds raised through the Sunflower Day campaign goes towards paying for the cost of the DNA test to register a donor, which costs R3100 per donor. “For the past two years schools in Mpumalanga, Western Cape have taken the top honours and bagged the prizes. To enter, schools need to sign up at www.sunflowerfund.org  and click on the schools competition tab.  To partner with The Sunflower Fund as a host for a Sunflower Day celebration event, to make a donation or to set up an awareness talk and donor drive at your school, contact Traci Sassenberg on 021 701 0661 or email; traci@sunflowerfund.org,” said Webster. For more information about the Sunflower Fund or to become a donor, visit the website or  contact 0800 12 10 82 or send a WhatsApp message to 074 715 0212.