A former SAPS clerk turned armed robber blew the whistle on his gang members and the five suspects appeared in Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Monday, following a robbery at a Foresthaven residence earlier this month. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said, “On Saturday, 17 August, acting on information, Lt/Col Rajak and his members proceeded to Berghaven where a 31-year-old suspect was arrested after he was found in possession of a gas pistol, blank police docket, cable ties, cellphones, black cap, a bunch of vehicle keys, an identity document belonging to an Indian female and gloves. The suspect was detained at SAPS Phoenix. “On Monday, 19 August, while Rajak was conducting cell visits, the 31-year-old suspect informed Rajak that he wished to volunteer information regarding the whereabouts of all the other suspects involved in this case. Rajak cautioned the suspect and informed him of his rights. Because the suspect was insisting, Rajak together with other members booked out the suspect and proceeded to Berghaven and then to Maphumulo where four other suspects were arrested. Cellphones, Magnum police boots, one navy blue police cap and a Toyota Tazz were recovered and entered in the SAPS 13,” Naidoo said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala, said, “It is alleged on 10 August at 6:30pm, six suspects entered a house at Foresthaven in Phoenix after they posed as policemen. 
They threatened the occupants in the house with firearms and ransacked the house. They stole two TV sets, five cellphones, a sound system and other items including cash. The family was also assaulted by the said suspects. “Following an investigation into the incident, police officers proceeded to Berghaven where a suspect was found hiding. The suspect was positively identified by the complainant who was also present during the arrest. A search was conducted and numerous exhibits including cable ties and a gas gun were found in suspect’s possession.” Gwala said all five suspects between the ages of 23 and 37 have been detained at SAPS Phoenix.“We are appealing to our communities to resist the temptation to buy stolen goods. The market for stolen goods is contributing to criminals committing further crimes. Citizens are urged to work with police to bring the perpetrators of crimes to book so that they can be placed behind the bars where they belong.” “We commend the Phoenix SAPS members for pursuing the course of justice so that the suspects can be brought to book. We encourage all police members to strive to uphold the law and always strive to keep the community safe and criminals at bay. Well done to the members on the arrests,” said Captain Naidoo. Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, lauded the Phoenix police officers on the excellent arrests and said, “The law when enforced ensures justice is served on those guilty perpetrators. “We commend the Phoenix SAPS members on the arrests and thank them for their dedicated efforts in keeping the community safe.”