The family of well-known community activist Gnanavallie “Yani” Govender, 60, are demanding justice after she was run over while crossing the road by an allegedly unlicensed speeding driver. She died at the scene on Saturday, 17 August, after she got off a taxi near the Rajput Hall. Speaking to The Chatsworth Tabloid, Govender’s niece, Lucielle Veerasamy said that her aunt was on her way to the Chatsworth Centre and was carrying her bags of vegetables. “The taxi dropped her off at the Rajput Hall. A female motorist slowed down and allowed her to cross the road. As she was crossing, another driver suddenly overtook the female driver at a high speed and knocked down my aunt. She was thrown quite a distance toward the stadium after she was hit by the car.“My aunt loved spending time with the family. She was a mother figure to her siblings from a young age and played a major role in the family. She was very much involved in the community and would spend everyday with the patients of RK Khan Hospital. “We want justice to be served for my aunt. We would not want anyone else to go through what we did. When we arrived at the scene of the accident, we were devastated but the suspect and his family showed no remorse and even laughed at us. Young people think speed is enjoyment but this driver has ripped our family apart,”  said Veerasamy.Former ANC Ward 73 branch chairperson, Visvin Reddy said: “It is with a heavy heart that we bid farewell to a most humble, caring, loving, kind and committed comrade and volunteer from Ward 73. She occupied a leadership role in the branch and she will be remembered for her unwavering support for the  programmes. “Yani is a well-known volunteer at RK Khan Hospital where she assists patients on a daily basis. She will go to the hospital in the early parts of the morning, a selfless woman, who placed the needs of others above her own. “Yani was a remarkable woman who was a devout Hindu. She played a key role at the Unit 5 temple and was at the forefront in our fight to stop the council from demolishing it. She is indeed a modern day hero and never hesitated being part of our protests for housing, healthcare, lower fuel prices, and other injustices,” said Reddy.