A petition to remove the Traffic Management System (TMS) that regulates parking within the CBD was handed over to the Newcastle Municipality on 8 August. The petition with about 1500 signatures from major retail groups, small businesses, financial institutions and private citizens is calling for the system to be scrapped due to its negative impact on trade and the economy. The petition accuses the TMS of “destroying business” in town, has deterred shoppers from entering the CBD and is crippling businesses who are finding it impossible to pay for rent and services. According to many, Newcastle’s CDB now resembles a ghost town and could potentially cripple the economy, force businesses to close and push up unemployment.  The petition was initiated by the Moonlight Business Hub who believe the TMS is a flawed system. Speaking to The Newcastle Express on behalf of the Hub, Advocate Mzwandile Simelane said that the system failed in other parts of the country. “We demand an urgent review of the system and a public perusal of the procurement contract between TMS and the municipality, failing which we will interdict this system,” he said. According to Simelane, the municipality was relying on the Municipal Systems Act which states that they can acquire revenue for the municipality. He, however, questioned this process undertaken in terms of bylaws  being passed as well as the system being gazetted. To date, motorists have listed several complaints about the system which came into effect on 1 July. Amongst, them motorists accuse parking marshalls of ‘favouritism’  and of not issuing receipts. Business owners whose vehicles are stationary from 8am to 5pm have complained. TMS spokesperson, Jeffrey Fokane responded to some of the issues. “Marshalls cannot show favouritism to any motorist as the system is on real-time, meaning that any and every vehicle in a parking bay will be picked up by the sensors or the tags in the ground. “Thus, we have every record of all vehicles parked and these are accounted for. Regarding receipts, motorists are advised to insist and demand a receipt from a marshal. Should a marshal refuse or not provide such a receipt, the motorist can and should report such a marshal to our offices, or to the manager in charge,” he said. Asked about the car guards who worked in the CBD and who are now redundant despite being recognised by the municipality, Fokane said that they were invited to be part of the workforce but many of them declined. “Some of them have been absorbed by us and are part of our staff. We do still invite them to come and apply for work and they will be trained accordingly. Car guards are not forced away in any way, they can be employed if they apply for work,” he said.   On the negative impact the system has on business, Fokane said: “It is only natural  that motorists will migrate to sites where parking bays are not managed by TMS. But the roll-out continues to other parts of the CBD. It is only a matter of time before the whole CBD is managed. Trade is still continuing in town and much positive feedback has been received in that there is now parking spaces when motorists or shoppers wish to visit certain shops, banks or the post office,” he said, despite the claims in the petition. He cautioned that motorists who refuse to pay for parking will be noted for parking arrears and would be liable to pay the outstanding fees.