The opening day of our latest Makro store in Cornubia, near uMhlanga, will be an exciting event filled with the latest and greatest products on offer. Join us on 27 March 2019 to celebrate this auspicious day and benefit from massive discounts and top-quality products. Millions of rands in savings await those who join us for the ribbon cutting. Seasoned Makro shoppers will be pleasantly surprised by the inspiring lifestyle displays in our 19 100 m2 store. Makro Cornubia boasts a ladies and men’s wear department, multimedia centre, sports and recreation department, baby goods department, office supplies division, as well as an impressive DIY and combined outdoor, lifestyle and camping section to explore the great outdoors inside our doors. Makro Cornubia has added benefits and services in store especially for you. Make use of our online drive-thru facility, money centre, in-store Vodacom store, tech desk, and, for some quality Makro me-time, come and indulge in something delightful from Mugg & Bean.In-store digital screens will update you on the latest ranges and best deals on our goods, while mobile pay-points make your Makro Cornubia shopping experience extra easy. While you’re there, why not use our free in-store Wi-Fi service. Retail shoppers, business owners and caterers can take advantage of a wide range of fresh fruit and vegetables, quality meats from our butchery, and our expansive chilled and frozen foods section. Enjoy your shopping experience knowing that Makro Cornubia is actively reducing its carbon footprint. Along with extra skylights for natural light and solar panels in the parking area to generate renewable energy, we also use the water on the premises responsibly. Makro Cornubia has a vested interest in the surrounding communities and we aim to create many new opportunities for our customer base. These include jobs for local residents, as well as sustainable community development programmes with special focus on the youth. Come join us at Makro Cornubia’s opening day but be there early. Opening days at Makro stores attract thousands of shoppers who eagerly start queuing the night before to take full advantage of our fantastic opening deals.  If you want to share in the excitement but don’t want to be part of the crowd, use Makro Cornubia’s drive-thru facility and get those great deals on the go. No matter how you to take part in our opening day, online or in-store, we can’t wait to welcome you. Come to Makro Cornubia, we’re ready to make a big first impression.