Half a century ago, Jay Govender, 70, and wife Dolly Govender ,70, said ‘I do’ and joined as one. Today, the couple celebrates 51 years of marriage. To celebrate the milestone anniversary, on Sunday, 8 September, the Govenders had an intimate dinner at their cosy Phoenix home, joined by their children. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Jay said his relationship with his wife started out as a friendship and has become a marriage for keeps. “My wife was friends with my mum. The moment I saw her, I fell in love with her. It was love at first sight, I sang a song for her and stole her heart away,” said Jay. The couple became good friends and dated for a year before tying the knot in 1968. The Govenders wed in Sidhar Road, Temple Hall in Clairwood where they were joined by 500 guests. “My husband is all I ever dreamed of in a life partner. His kindness and humility was the highlight of our love and remains so today. “The wedding was like a dream come true. It was a special day I will forever cherish in my heart. Our guests were treated to a sumptuous breyani and salad and were entertained by a live band,” said Dolly. “We cherish all our beautiful times together. We would not have made it this far if it wasn’t for God on our side. We have had our fair share of joy and sorrow – we laid our youngest son to rest and God was the thread that gave us the strength to move forward from our loss. “Great marriages are made in heaven and I want to thank God each day for the love that he has given to us and for the love of family. We are reminded each day about the goodness of God in our lives and we give him the highest praise,” said Jay. Speaking about what qualities they like in one another, Dolly said, “My husband is kind, humble and hard working, a great provider and an absolutely wonderful husband and father to our children.” Jay stated that his wife is not only gorgeous, but  hard working and unique. “She is definitely one in a million, if I had to choose again, I would choose her for another 100 years,” expressed Jay. During their leisure time, Dolly enjoys cooking, reading her Bible, praying for people and engaging in evangelism. Jay enjoys fishing, spending quality time with family, and watching his favourite TV shows. The Govenders are blessed with five children, three son-in-laws, two daughter-in-laws, 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Their advice for a long lasting marriage to the younger generation is, “First and foremost commitment to your partner is very important. “Honesty, devotion and communication are key to a successful marriage and always make God the foundation of your marriage and family life.”