Scenes from the ‘Wild West’ played out in Newlands East on Sunday when gunfire broke out on the corner of Tandipa and Duckbill Road where two men sustained gunshot wounds with one fatality. The incident was recorded and the video was widely shared on social media. In the recording of Sunday’s shooting, men and women scatter as gunfire erupts amidst screams and shouts. Hot on the heels of the weekend tragedy, a second shooting unfolded in the same vicinity on Tuesday night during a prayer service outside the flat of the slain man who demised in Sunday’s gunfire. It is alleged that there were injuries on scene. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, a local resident and mother of two minor girls, who wished to remain anonymous, said she is fed-up with the gross violence that spills on to the streets as result of drug-turf wars as this endangers the innocent lives of children and other citizens in the area. “I saw the video. There were children playing nearby when the gunfire was unleashed in broad daylight. In that vicinity, there is a church and crèche close by. What if that was a weekday and children were passing by? How many children would have been injured and possibly killed in that gunfire?” the angry mom said. “This is really getting out of hand and we need immediate intervention to curb this lawlessness. The shooters are known to locals. They are walking around scot free. Tuesday’s shooting was a retaliation move and outside a prayer meeting albeit. Vehicles parked outside were sprayed with bullets,” said the aggrieved resident. According to the local woman, the deceased young man, believed to be in his 20s, was a quite person. “This Newlands East area is overpopulated with drug dealers. They are walking around waving their guns. What about our children’s safety? How many more lives will these turf wars claim? How many more children must we bury? We, as a community need to rise up and stop these thugs and drug dealers from blatantly snuffing out any more lives. They cannot be allowed to destroy our community. We need something to be done now to stop the bloodshed and destruction,” said the incensed mom. At the time of going to print, the Springfield Weekly Gazette could not ascertain the identity of the deceased man. Police spokesperson, Cpt Nqobile Gwala, said, “Newlands East SAPS are currently investigating charges of attempted murder after a shooting that happened in Newlands East on 15 September 2019. The Newlands East SAPS reported to the scene after a complaint was raised by the community of a shooting happening in the area. It is alleged that it was an altercation between two rivals that left one of the members shot and another one wounded on the neck. The victims were rushed to the nearest hospital.” Police could not confirm that the shot victim was deceased at the time of going to print.