While Sandile Ndlovu, a first year student is fighting for his life in hospital, his family is looking for answers. The 18 year old student was brutally assaulted in a lecture room at the Steve Biko campus at the Durban University of Technology  (DUT) on  9 September. However, events leading to his attack is shrouded in mystery. According to reports, Ndlovu was found by a fellow student who then notified security.
The family is pleading for the student who found him to assist them with information. 
“Somebody found Sandile. Who found him? That person went to report to library security,” said Ndlovu’s uncle and family spokesperson, Tshepo Mokeona. Mokoena said he had to travel to Durban all the way from Nelspruit after receiving the news that Ndlovu was fighting for his life in hospital, after he was attacked. Mokoena told the media that on Friday, the family was given three options. Mokoena said, “Option one was to switch 
off life support, option two was to stop medication and option three was to continue with life support. We chose option three because the doctors told us the swelling was coming down and we are hopeful he will recover.” Ndlovu sustained a cracked skull and a swollen brain. It appeared that the attacker smashed his head against the wall and stabbed him in the head.  His cellphone and laptop is missing. Students staged a protest on Friday, 13 September, and marched to City Hospital to pray for Ndlovu who is in ICU. Students said they feel unsafe at DUT. 
Not so long ago, the institution was  shut down, after another student was shot and killed by security guards. Students said they will continue the fight for their safety and want  justice for their fellow students. As a result of the protests, DUT issued a statement and apologized for suspension of lectures. DUT said: “The university apologises for the short notice. This follows the student protest action that started in Durban this morning. This decision was taken in the best interests of the safety and security of all students and staff.” According to other reports, the spokesperson of DUT, Alan Khan, said DUT is looking 
into the issues raised. He said management had met with the SRC  to address the issues they had raised in their memorandum which included campus security. The university also stated that no security guards were posted in the lecture room. “The university is working with the South African Police Service regarding the investigation into the attack on Ndlovu. 
The student services department remains in daily contact with Ndlovu’s family and the entire university community is praying for Ndlovu during this challenging time.”