Few vehicles in the world can be instantly identified by just three letters. But to motoring enthusiasts everywhere “GT-R” has become synonymous with excitement, high performance and unparalleled refinement. The breathtaking anniversary edition GTR will be available in South Africa. Making its debut at the 2019 New York International Auto Show, the 2020 Nissan GT-R 50th Anniversary Edition takes the nameplate to a level that was unimaginable when it was first introduced 50 years ago. To celebrate the half-century of the GT-R, engineers challenged themselves to find undiscovered performance potential while still making sure the car can be enjoyed by drivers at any level. The 2020 Nissan GT-R will come in two trim levels in the South African market: GT-R Premium and GT-R Black Edition. The special edition car will come in three heritage-era, two-tone exterior colour combinations meant to represent the GT-R’s liveries from the Japan GP series – of which the original GT-R was born to dominate in. Inside the 50th Anniversary Edition is a special grey interior colour scheme, which gives the cabin a sense of luxury, reminiscent of the atmosphere of the night sky after the twilight hour. Additional 50th anniversary features include unique steering wheel and shift knob trim, special seat embossing, an Alcantara® headliner with unique stitching, Alcantara-wrapped sunvisors, and more. While many believed that the refinement and performance of the GT-R’s 550-horsepower 3.8-liter V6 24-valve twin-turbocharged engine – each handcrafted by its own takumi technician – were so high that there was no room for improvement, the car’s engineers had a few tricks up their sleeves. Among them was incorporating new turbochargers. Overall, they provide even sharper engine response in and out of corners, making the driving experience more rewarding and richer than ever before. The exhaust manifolds, inspired by racing technology, have optimised turbo flange attachment points, which allow for easier servicing and potential tuning, without touching the exhaust manifold. GT-R features a revised six-speed dual-clutch transmission with a refined “R mode”, made for both road and track. It features more aggressive downshifts to better anticipate swift cornering exits, with gear selection happening during ABS engagement, resulting in reduced understeer and a more driver-intuitive feeling. The GT-R’s signature exhaust note is the product of a new titanium muffler, featuring titanium finishers with burnished blue tips. The electronically controlled suspension has been tuned to provide better cornering stability and a smoother ride. The steering is more linear and precise than ever, requiring minimal corrections at speeds of up to 300 kph. A new brake booster increases the initial braking response by engaging with less pedal stroke, resulting in enhanced stopping power and feel. The GT-R’s cabin represents the ideal blend of luxury and sport. The distinct driver-oriented cockpit has comfortable yet supportive seats for both front and rear passengers. The dashboard is designed to convey a “horizontal flow,” delivering a sense of high stability for front seat occupants. Expect to pay anything upwards of R2.2million for your special edition GT-R.