While cycling can be a fun way to exercise, lose weight, challenge yourself, or to just experience the outdoors, the discipline can also be used to raise funds or to create awareness for a worthy cause. And that is exactly what Freddie Oosthuizen is planning on doing. The passionate 50-year-old cyclist is planning to cycle 2000km from Newcastle to Cape Town to raise funds and create awareness for Home Meah Child and Youth Care Centre in Newcastle. Oosthuizen’s  solo cycling journey starts on 5 October and ends about 25 days later. Home Meah is a child and youth care centre registered with the Department of Social Development. It provides temporary safe care for abandoned, neglected and abused babies. The home has six full time and four part-time employees run by a management committee. The home provides 24 hour care for babies, which include babies that are affected by HIV/Aids. The subsidy received from government is limited and therefore the home is dependent on the support of the community and its own fundraising activities to make ends meet. All funds raised from the cycling event will go to Home Meah. The 2000km route connecting starts in Newcastle and it will take Oosthuizen through the stunning countrysides of KwaZulu-Natal, passing historical landmarks in Pretoria and Kimberley until he reaches the magical Mother City. He has done similar fundraising events in the past. His aim is to raise a R300 000. Said Oosthuizen: “Home Meah is well-known in the community as they take care of babies, children and the youth. They need financial help to meet daily expenses. I was motivated to raise funds when I met up with them about two months ago. I would like to involve Newcastle behind me as a community which can help lift the financial burden.” He said that a lot of planning goes into such an event and talking to the community to make them aware of Home Meah’s need, is what he loves to do. He plans to do more cycling fundraising events in the future. For more information call 071-115-2873.