The KwaZulu-Natal Blind and Deaf Society in partnership with JMV Textiles launched it’s annual Eye Can Walk campaign last week at the Pavilion Hotel in Durban, with over 100 guests, campaign ambassadors and media present. The inspiring 5km and 8km fun walk aims to raise awareness towards the blind community and how they experience challenges on a daily basis. The walk will be held on Sunday, 3 November at the Kings Park Athletic Stadium. Speaking at the launch, Veetha Sewkuran, chairperson of the Working Committee at the KwaZulu-Natal Blind and Deaf Society said that the Eye Can Walk is a perfect platform to create awareness in a fun way with both family and corporates interacting with each other as bonding and team building. “We aim to make Eye Can Walk our biggest fundraiser in the years to come.” Over the years, the event has drawn people from different cultures, ethnic groups, backgrounds, abilities, and perspectives in significance of creating “Ubuntu“and care to the visually impaired community. The organisation unites the blind, family and friends, corporates and members of the community in KZN to help encourage individuals to understand the challenges that the visually impaired face on a daily basis while walking on public roads. The challenge however, is not the race, as the participants are blindfolded as they start the race so that they get to experience a small glimpse of some of the challenges that blind people encounter while walking on public roads.   Participants need not fear as the blindfolds supplied have peepholes which will give participants a glimpse of the route. Sewkuran explained how she had donned the blindfold with peepholes and walked in a mall following the sounds and touching objects as a ‘unique experience’. Participants are encouraged to walk in pairs with one participant being blindfolded and the other leading. To lend support to participants, qualified orientation and mobility practitioners, community-based rehabilitation workers, and event marshals will also be on hand, if required. The Eye Can Walk 2019 campaign organisers promise a bigger and better event. Participants are encouraged to register early. The first 1500 participants will receive a T-shirt, a medal, a goodie bag and many more exciting giveaways. Professional runners belonging to an athletic club are welcome to participate. Cost is R70 for the 5km and R90 for 8km. Email fundraising@bdskzn.org.za for entry forms or enter online on www.eventiming.info/eyecanwalk. Entry boxes closes on 28 October at Durban Runner (Morningside) and STS Sport (Moses Mabhida). For more information, visit their Facebook Eye Can Walk – Fun Walk or call 031 309 4991, 083 783 6363 or 084 494 3907.