Horror, shock and grief has gripped the community of Wyebank after a heartbroken mother found her four children hanged at her residence, on Tuesday. The father who had been on the run since Tuesday after allegedly hanging his four children was arrested on Wednesday.  KwaZulu-Natal police said the 44-year-old man was arrested in KwaDabeka, west of Durban. “He will face four counts of murder,” police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said. According to Mbele, it is alleged that the father of the children aged four, six and 10 went to fetch them from school just after 2:30pm. He was seen entering the house with the children. “The children’s mother learned that the father came to fetch the children. She became suspicious that he was up to something. She went to KwaDabeka SAPS and requested assistance. Police proceeded to the house with the mother of the children. On entering the house, they found two children hanging in the main bedroom and another hanging in another room. The mother then went to the high school where the teenage stepdaughter 16 was schooling but she discovered that the suspect came to fetch her. This was further reported to the police and a search started. The body of the teenage girl was found in the bushes in New Germany.” Reports have identified the deceased children as Kuhlekonke Mpungose aged four, Khwezilekhethelo, six, and Sipho, 10, whilst their 16-year-old step sister was Ayakha. According to information, the mother, reported to be a teacher, left for work in the morning and was informed by her husband that he was going to search for another residence for himself. It is alleged that the couple are estranged and in the process of acquiring a divorce. The Department of Social Development has dispatched a team of Social Workers to offer psycho-social support and relief service to the mother of the children.On Tuesday night, scores of women and men including civil groups, gathered outside Durban City Hall, and held a vigil in remembrance of women and children, past and present, who have been brutally raped and slain in SA. Bearing placards and candles, the attendees paid tribute to slain University of Cape Town student, Uyinene Mrwetyana 19, who was brutally raped and bludgeoned to death by a post office employee 42, who has since been arrested.