The rising stars from the Association of Shotokan Karate-Do South Africa (ASKDSA) have excelled in recent development tournaments. They competed at the KZN development tournament where they won medals in their respective divisions and achieved their KZN development colours. Andrew Mothi won bronze in the 10-11 years under 35kg division while Sengezo Ngcobo won gold for kata in the 10-11 years and kumite under 35kgs, Shannon Aricksamy won bronze for kata and kumite (over 45kg) and Yajna Maharaj won gold for kata and kumite (over 45kg) in the 10-11years female division. In the 12-13 years division, Sivanasen Rasen won silver for kumite (over 55kg), Thandokuhle Ngoma won silver for kumite (under 47kg), Tyheel Jagarath won bronze for kata and silver for kumite (under 45kg), Yash Hiralal won silver for kata and bronze for kumite (under 40kg) and Emihle Khumalo won bronze for kumite (under 40kg). Adhisha Maharaj won silver for kata and gold for kumite (over 54g) in the 14-15 years division. In the 16-17 years division, Jaidyn Govindan won bronze for kata and gold for kumite (over 76kg) and Nikisha Jagarath won gold for kata and gold for kumite (over 59kg). At the SA Development Tournament, the athletes represented the KZN development team where their performance was of a high level. Competition was tough but some of the athletes excelled in their respective divisions. In the 10-11 years division, Yajna Maharaj won silver for kumite (over 45kg) while in the 12-13 years division, Tyheel Jagarath won bronze for both kata and kumite (under 45kg) and Thandokuhle Ngoma won silver for kumite (under 47kg). Adhisha Maharaj won silver for kata and bronze for kumite (over 54kg) and in the 16-17 years division, Jaidyn Govindan won silver for kumite (over 76kg) while Nikisha Jagarath won gold for kata and kumite (over 59kg) becoming the grand champion of her division. Sensei Vijay Govender said, “These athletes performed excellently at the elite event. Sensei Dennis Kumarasamy, president of ASKDSA was extremely proud of their accomplishments and congratulates them on their excellent performances. He said that their success was due to their hard work, sacrifices and perseverance as well as ongoing training and preparation from their coaches.”