The new Audi Q3 is a family SUV with great all-round talents. In the second generation it appears not only visually more self-confident, but offers far greater utility value thanks to abundant space,   adaptability and many practical details. Just like the Audi top-of-the-line models, it features a digital cockpit and a large MMI screen with touch response. Numerous infotainment solutions from the full-size segment connect the compact SUV with its environment. New assist systems support the driver when parking, in town and on long journeys. These features also enhance comfort, as does the further developed suspension. The new Audi Q3 looks much sportier than its predecessor. The Singleframe grille in octagon design and large side air inlets characterise the aggressive front-end. Eight vertical bars divide up the radiator grille with its striking frame and reflect the SUV character. The headlights are narrow and run inwards with their wedge shape. Customers for the new Q3 have many options for customising their car. These include a contrasting paint finish for the lower body section, which accentuates the SUV look even more. With the S line exterior package, the bumpers, sill trims and diffuser look decidedly sporty. Eleven paint colours are available. There are also two exterior trim lines available in addition to the standard model, namely the Advanced and S line trim lines. Each provides a differentiated exterior visual appearance with characteristic bumper elements and larger rims. In the dark, the contour ambient LED lighting package – available as an optional extra or standard with the technology package – sets pinpoint lighting accents on the centre console and on the doors. It can be set to 30 colours and also illuminates the storage compartment under the instrument panel as well as the Audi logo above the glove compartment. 
A range of hardware modules supplement the infotainment portfolio. The Audi phone box links the owner’s smartphone to the vehicle’s antenna and charges the phone inductively. To play music from the MP3 player, USB stick or smartphone via the loudspeakers in the car, the Audi Q3 offers two USB ports – one of which is the latest new type C. The Audi Q3 is also at the top of its class when it comes to assist systems. Substantially enhancing comfort on long journeys is the lane departure warning system. It is active from speeds of approximately 60 km/h and helps prevent the vehicle inadvertently drifting out of the lane. The Audi Q3 makes maneuvering easier thanks to functions such as the park assist. It steers the SUV automatically into and out of parking spaces. The driver only has to accelerate, brake and shift gears.  Maneuverable in town, agile on dirt roads, balanced on the highway – the suspension on the Audi Q3 offers a wide spread. Audi South Africa has introduced a new package concept which will be adopted for all new models to be launched. The concept aims to reduce complexity when ordering a new vehicle, considering that a customer is generally faced with a long list of options to choose from. It classifies key options according to a specific customer need and offers a straight-forward value proposition that is easy for a customer to understand. These packages have been defined by a combination of customer preferences as well as strategic options which aim to highlight Audi’s uniqueness or technology enhancements.