Star Senior Citizens welcomed the season of with a floral theme party at their usual spot recently. The members spent the day having lots of fun under the sun, engaging in exciting activities with lots of games and entertainment. After a joyful day, the members were treated to lunch. The members of Grove End Senior Citizens Club were recently addressed by MF Councillor Jonathan Annipen on safety. Annipen urged members to practice caution when employing people to assist them as helpers at their homes. He provided lunch to the seniors who were very appreciative and thanked him for his kind gesture. Lenham Senior Citizens Group embarked on an awesome weekend getaway to Howick Falls. The seniors had the time of their lives, enjoying the lovely scenery, exploring the delights of Howick and making lasting adventurous memories together. The club chairlady, Rajes Inder said, “The members enjoyed every moment of their stay in Howick Falls. They were very excited to be out and about for the weekend, exploring beautiful views with lots of fun and laughter. The members are already looking forward to their next exciting trip.” Members of Northcroft Senior Citizens Club (Church of Liberty branch) welcomed the new season by hosting an exciting outdoor Spring Party at the centre recently. The members spent the day basking in the sun and enjoying good food and each other’s company. It was a beautiful day filled with joy and laughter as the seniors made lasting memories together. Esselen Senior Citizens celebrated their fifth year anniversary where members were treated to a meal. The club vice-chairman, Nelson Muthusamy commented, “The centre has grown from strength to strength and we look forward to sharing many more years together as a team.” Club chairman, Vassie Govinden shared a special message with all the members stating, “Every day is a new beginning, take a deep breath, smile and leave a sparkle wherever you go.” In keeping with the season of spring, members of Brinkvale Senior Citizens welcomed it in style as they dressed up in their bright outfits at the club’s fundraising Spring Breakfast on Saturday, 7 September. The event was held at the centre in Rydalvale and was a resounding success.