The State Capture Inquiry was launched by the government in 2018, to investigate allegations of fraud and corruption. Since it’s formation, it has cost the country an estimated R300 million. Tabloid Newspapers took to the streets to get the public’s views. Do you think that the inquiry has been going on for too long, or do you think it’s a needed process to uncover all the fraud and corruption in the country? Shaviq TickaI think it’s costing way too much, because even though they are trying to find out who are the corrupt parties, it’s not doing justice because people are still being corrupt, and this is wasting money. Wonga Maquthu The only other inquiry I remember is the Life Esidimeni Inquiry, and it didn’t yield any results as no one was really held accountable. Therefore, I feel like the recommendations are being made but no one is being held accountable and in that sense it is useless. People are being summoned and things are being revealed but no one is being held accountable. It’s frustrating because if we are just going to be getting information without action, then we shouldn’t do it. Kaylee BowesI think the State Capture Inquiry is a good thing because corruption is a major problem in South Africa. But also R300 million is a lot of money, and it could have been used for education, the healthcare system, and other failing parts of our government. I definitely have mixed feelings about it.Jessica KainI personally think that there is a need for the State Capture Inquiry, even if this is the amount that it is costing the country. As sometimes you have to lose some to win some. Losing this much of money, might put the country in the red, but getting all the corruption out of the country is priority so that we can make billions later. South Africa is a great tourist attraction, but people don’t want to be around places where there is corrupt stuff going on. We will profit much more if corruption is out of the country. Nwabiso Dlamini Yes, the State Capture Inquiry has been going on for far too long now. It is wasting tax payers money. I haven’t seen the good fruits of the inquiry and till today no official has faced the justice system. Really  I don’t see the purpose of the inquiry, because at the end, no one will be prosecuted.Gael Meek Considering our country’s state of affairs, the inquiry is definitely needed. No time is too long if the investigations and outcome leads to punishment in accordance with our Constitution. The perpetrators should be punished accordingly with no favouritism shown. I think the State Capture Inquiry is a good thing because corruption is a major problem in South Africa. But also R300 million is a lot of money, and it could have been used for education, the healthcare system, and other failing parts of our government. I definitely have mixed feelings about it.Jessica KainI personally think that there is a need for the State Capture Inquiry, even if this is the amount that it is costing the country. As sometimes you have to lose some to win some. Losing this much of money, might put the country in the red, but getting all the corruption out of the country is priority so that we can make billions later. South Africa is a great tourist attraction, but people don’t want to be around places where there is corrupt stuff going on. We will profit much more if corruption is out of the country. Nwabiso Dlamini Yes, the State Capture Inquiry has been going on for far too long now. It is wasting tax payers money. I haven’t seen the good fruits of the inquiry and till today no official has faced the justice system. Really  I don’t see the purpose of the inquiry, because at the end, no one will be prosecuted.Gael Meek Considering our country’s state of affairs, the inquiry is definitely needed. No time is too long if the investigations and outcome leads to punishment in accordance with our Constitution. The perpetrators should be punished accordingly with no favouritism shown.