In the spirit of solidarity, Holy Family College Primary School educators added a twist to World Literacy Book Day, by dressing up as their favorite superheroes, in black to show support to survivors and victims of women abuse. In the past week, the country was in outcry after cases of missing women were on the rise, only to find that the women had been raped and gruesomely killed by remorseless men. Universities, organisations, schools, businesses and individuals united in marches, prayers and pledges to fight the scourge of violence against women and children. Black was the colour chosen to signify the mourning and respect for  the lives lost in this dark cloud of violence. On Thursday, 5 September, South African President, Cyril Ramaphosa  addressed the country on the issues of gender-based violence after angry students from the University of Cape Town demanded him to do so following the death of Uyinene Mrwetyana, calling on government to bring back the death sentence for perpetrators. The president said the country has been deeply traumatised by the acts of extreme violence perpetrated by men against women and children and that the acts of violence have made the country doubt the very foundation of its democratic society, the commitment to human rights and human dignity, to equality, to peace and justice. “As we have done before in times of great difficulty and strife, this is the time to come together as a nation to confront our problems directly. The nation is mourning the deaths of several women and girls who were murdered by men. We know the names of Uyinene Mrwetyana, Leighandre Jegels, Janika Mallo, Ayakha Jiyane and her three little siblings, but we also grieve for many others who have died at the hands of men. These killings have caused great pain and outrage because acts of such brutality have become all too common in our communities. Violence against women has become more than a national crisis.It is a crime against our common humanity,” said Ramaphosa. Continued on page 4…