The care of the cold-blooded inhabitants of Crocworld Conservation Centre is now in the capable hands of James Wittstock (pictured). Formerly of Durban North, Wittstock is the newly-appointed reptile curator at the Scottburgh-based centre. We are excited to welcome James  to the Crocworld Conservation Centre family. He has a  wealth of experience in reptile care.  Jame’s personal passion for animal welfare and conservation is well known. His wealth of knowledge of reptiles and positive approach to all tasks will undoubtedly make him a big asset to Crocworld. We are working on a number of exciting new projects for the centre,  said Martin Rodrigues, manager of Crocworld Conservation Centre. Wittstock, who is a member of the Association of Reptile Keepers in KZN, made the move to Pennington on the KZN South Coast from his former home in Durban North at the end of July. For the past four-and-a-half years, Wittstock has been working as a herpetologist in the dangerous creatures department of uShaka Sea World in Durban. 
His interest in reptiles began in childhood when he was introduced to them by his father.
Said Wittstock:  “My dad is an avid reptile enthusiast and brought me up having the same passion for reptiles that he does. I enjoy the rescue and rehabilitation side of working with animals the most, and I thoroughly enjoy being able to have a hand in positively helping animals  and the environment.”  
Wittstock said he is excited to be at the famous centre.
“It is an awesome facility with an amazing variety of animals. I hope I am able to execute several new projects that will continue to keep Crocworld on the local and international map,”  he said. Along with his expertise, Wittstock brings with him a number of new additions to the centre. Among these are a breeding pair of ridge-tailed monitors,  of Australian origin, as well as some stunning Amazon Tree Boas. His passion for reptiles extends beyond work hours, with a number of snakes found at his homel. Outside of his reptilian interest, Wittstock is an avid player and spectator of rugby and soccer, as well as a keen wildlife photographer.