The Shallcross community was left in shock after the lifeless body of 23-year-old Demisha Naik was found by her distraught father in her flat last Tuesday. Naik who was described as a  bubbly friendly person was allegedly stabbed and beaten to death. She was pronounced dead on the scene by paramedics. Family, friends and mourners paid their last respects to Naik at her funeral on Thursday. Siven Subramodey from Amawele Emergency Services said they were called on to the scene by members of the public. “Upon arrival, the female was declared dead. It seems she succumbed to her injuries and I called the station commander and informed him of what happened. “Police soon afterwards launched a massive manhunt after Naik’s was found dead,” said KZN provincial police spokesperson, Lt Colonel Thulani Zwane.  “The victim’s body sustained stab wounds and she died on the scene and we currently have a search for a wanted suspect.  Later, the person suspected of Naik’s murder was found dead in his Montford home, with a gunshot wound and 9mm pistol.” A close friend of hers, Darren Loganathan, who was still in shock following her murder said:  “When I think about the kind of person Demisha was, my heart swells with pain. She was taken from us way too soon by such a heinous deed. I have known Demisha since we were in primary school and we have been close friends since then. “She was a true gem. She was a fierce and feisty person who had great aspirations for herself. She may have been taken from us but her humble spirit and her memories will remain with us forever. She will be dearly missed,”  said Loganathan. Tributes and condolences poured in for the 23-year-old beautician after the news of her murder spread on social media. Naik was described by her neighbours as a fun, loving and bubbly person who was always willing to help. Said one mourner:  “She was so young and full of life. She was her mother’s best friend and her father’s pride.” Neighbours said that they were unaware of what happened until paramedics and police arrived on the scene. “It is unbelievable, we had no clue of such a heinous act. We received news that a girl was murdered. It is truly heart-breaking that society is no longer safe for our women,” added a close family friend.
Police continue their investigations.