Durban based snake catcher, Nick Evans, caught a Black Mamba recently in Verulam. It was his third catch of the same species at the same property since October last year. With summer temperature’s soaring and unbearable heatwave conditions on the cards for February, there is no doubt that confrontations between snakes and people will intensify. Snakes are relatively common and people coming in contact with snakes is occurring more and more often.  Traditionally, snakes were mostly seen on the rural areas and farms, or at the least where properties were very bushy or if there were bushy surroundings. However, encounters in urban areas are becoming common, especially along the coastal belt and areas with high humidity. This time of year, Emergency Medical Services  (EMS) receives calls that some people are bitten by snakes while snake catchers are called to remove reptiles from homes, yards, vehicle engines and other places. “Learners returned to school on Wednesday and a number of them, owing to their circumstances have no choice but to walk via bushes to school and back home. Such learners who encounter snakes, should leave them alone,” says snake catchers like Evans. “Provoking a snake such as a Black Mamba or a Puff Adder could prove fatal,” said Evans. Why do snakes use venom? Snakes mainly use their venom to kill or cause a disability to their prey. It is also less commonly used to defend themselves from a perceived threat. This is the most plausible reason as to why a snake would bite a human. The majority of venoms are not harmful. However, there are several species of snakes that have very toxic venom, which propagates our fear of snakes. Venom protection and delivery to victim. The venom a snake produces is stored in venom glands located in the snakes head. When the snake wishes to deliver the venom the snake bites the victim, sinking their fangs onto the victims flesh. The fangs, which are hollow (or in some cases grooved), are connected to the venom glands and the venom is injected through the hollow fangs into the victim. Haemotoxic venomsThis type of venom affects the clotting factors in blood, resulting in haemorrhaging due to the blood not being able to form blood clots. The obvious effect of this venom is normally delayed, while a complex chemical process affects the blood, which then results in defuse bleeding. With intensive treatment most cases are not fatal. Examples of snakes, that produce this type of venom, are the Boom Slang and Vine snake. Fortunately these snakes are sly and have smaller fangs, which limit penetration in to flesh, especially through clothing. Neurotoxic venomThis is arguably the most dangerous type of venom. The venom affects the ability of the body’s nerves, to transmit nerve impulses, which ultimately results in paralysis. This results in respiratory failure due to the lungs not being able to receive the nerve impulses from the brains respiratory center. Black and Green Mambas and Cobras produce neurotoxic venom. Venom potency  Irrespective of the species or family of the snake, the following factors also affect the effect of the venom on the victim: • The amount of venom injected during the bite. Most snakes’ venom is as effective when they are still juveniles, however the quantity of venom available to inject will be less, the depth the smaller fangs will be able to penetrate will also be shallower. • Some snakes are rumored to give what is called a dry bite, where  the victim is bitten but there is no venom released during the bite. This could be due to the venom being finished or could possibly be due to the snake deciding not to release the venom. • The area on the body where the snake strikes. • The smaller the victim, (example a child or baby) the greater the effect of the venom will be. The amount of venom injected will be the same as if it was an adult bitten but the dose will be effectively higher due to the body size of the child. Treatment of a snake bite Precise treatment of the various kinds of snake venoms is considerably different and is best left to medical professionals. However, there are some general principles that can be followed while accessing medical help: • Although it sounds strange, STAY CALM! Any activity including panicking will increase the victim’s heart rate which will circulate the venom in the body faster. This includes bystanders or people trying to help the victim as they may inadvertently be causing the patient to stress. • Limit activity. After moving away from the danger area, any form of activity, be it running, walking, pacing up and down, needs to be limited as combined with the stress of already have been bitten by a snake, this will defiantly increase the victims heart rate. • If driving to a medical facility, preferably have someone else drive. There are many myths regarding snake bite treatment, many of which simply worsen the situation. DO NOT: • Wait for symptoms to develop before seeking medical attention use a tourniquet (a tourniquet is a tight encircling band or belt applied around an arm or leg) as a tourniquet in the long run, can cause complications. • Cut the bite area in an attempt to make it bleed • Suck the venom out the wound • Apply heat or cold packs to the bite area The snake does not have to be killed and brought with when seeking medical attention. This wastes time in seeking help and increases the risk of being bitten again. Medical professionals will treat the patient according to the symptoms you present with, which will also identify which family of snake was involved. Avoid being bitten The age of saying of prevention is better than cure is pertinent when it comes to snake bites. The following can be done to avoid been bitten: • When hiking or walking in a wilderness area, stick to the path and avoid grassy, bushy areas, where snakes may be hiding. Also wear boots, long pants and a long sleeved shirt • Be careful when picking up objects, where snakes may be hiding under. The classic example is logs, which is sourced as fire wood. • Don’t try catch or prod snakes with a stick, most snakes can strike two thirds of their length, when resting. Conclusion While most people avoid contact with snakes at all costs, encounters with snakes are inevitable. Snakes will also most often try and avoid a confrontation with a human. Most snake venom does not have serious effects on humans, however after being bitten by a snake medical advice must be sought, don’t wait for symptoms to develop before seeking help.