The Department of Basic Education says it is concerned about the high occurence of violence in schools, this after a video of two Southlands Secondary students viciously attacking each other went viral on social media on Wednesday, 23 January, The video which was leaked on Wednesday night went viral almost instantly. The 30 second clip shows two girls in their school uniform being encouraged by a fellow student to fight. The girls are then seen attacking each other and pulling each other s hair, while bystanders cheer them on with vulgar language. The Department of Basic Education Spokesperson, Elijah Mhlanga said,  The department will be investigating the matter further. We do not condone this kind of behaviour in our schools. Strict action will be taken. Mhlanga went on to say that this is unacceptable behaviour while wearing your school uniform,  Students need to remember when they are in our schools uniform they need to behave accordingly. Hold our school s name high and not partake in such behaviour which brings disrepute to the school. The video was filmed on a cellphone, which raised another concern of student taking the phones to school. Mhlanga addressed the issue of phones in school,  Mobile phones are not accepted at any school, and for all emergencies the students can use the schools phone. By bringing your phone to school you create numerous problems. This is a huge distraction to students, it increases the issue of theft as well as a way if cheating during test and examinations,  he added. 
Members of the community did not take lightly to the video with many saying it was unacceptable behaviour from such young girls. Nelisha Pillay, a mother of two said,  I have two kids who are going to high school next year, it is scary to think this is how our children behave when we are not around. Patsy Naidoo who has a son in matric said,  I think it is based on the child and their upbringing. We cannot paint every child with the same brush, I personally trust my son enough to make the right choices when it comes to a situation like this. Patsy also mentioned that the school should consider increasing their security to avoid any further situations like this.
A parent who wished to remain anonymous for the safety of his child said,  After this video parents will start questioning the credibility of Southlands Secondary School. I have a child in the school who is in her second last year and can honestly say this is an outstanding school. We have had no problems in regards to the quality of education, this video does not classify the school, the quality of education or all the students. This just shows a handful of disobedient students. The principal of Southlands Secondary was unable to comment on this matter.