After its recent sell out run and almost a decade leaving audiences in stitches, Charous and Bruinous is back. The show features some of Durban’s most stand-up comedy acts will share the stage for a laugh-a-thon not to be missed. The latest edition in the comedy series features Masood Boomgaard, Neil Green, Sagie Murugan, Kelvin Stoffels and more. The show promises to offer a truly South African experience as our comedians offer their unique insights into living as an Indian or Coloured in the Rainbow nation, tackle ‘chaarou and bruinou’ stereotypes and narrate side splitting tales from the exotic lands such as Wentworth, Chatsworth, Phoenix, Sydenham and Newlands. The first 2019 edition of the show sees the return of stalwarts like Masood Boomgaard who since appearing in the show a decade ago, has gone to be a viral video star, perform around the world and appear on major comedy platforms like Comedy Central. Similarly, Green is now one of the country’s most sought after and premier acts, regularly performing alongside the biggest names in the business. He is known for his unique take on current and everyday issues. His candid approach earning him legions of fans. There is always excitement in the air, every time Kelvin Stoffels takes to the stage, delivering his humour with swag and creativity, often busting a move or breaking into song. Veteran Sagie Murugan never disappoints with his high energy style of joke telling that has made 
him one of the most celebrated names in
comedy. Charous and Bruinous promises to be a thrilling comedic experience. There is also Bruin-ou advice on surviving the recession, a guide to understanding lightning fast ‘Chaarou’ talk and tips on identifying different species of Indians and Coloureds. There is also discussions on uncles who played soccer at Curries Fountain have bushy moustaches and crooked Richie Rich or Mickey Mouse jail tattoos, how aunties hold grudges over outstanding Tupperware, houses decorated with doily cloths, how the men can come to blows over Man United and Liverpool and the love of the Golf. Charous and Bruinous is more than just 
a comedy show, it’s a cultural adventure.
Charous and Bruinous takes place on 
25 January at the Bat Centre (next to Wilson’s Wharf) at 8:30pm. Tickets are R120 and are available from Computicket and Checkers.