A Tongaat businessman who allegedly raped an 18-year-old woman after promising her work, has been arrested. The suspect was initially caught by members of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) and was then handed over to the Tongaat SAPS. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that the suspect was charged with rape and was detained at the Tongaat police station until his appearance in court. One person came out with the same allegations on Facebook, and said, “My sister was also called for this interview as well and was told to start the next day, she did not feel right about it so she ended up not going. We are shocked to hear how this man plays with desperate girls who need jobs.” The complainant claimed that the accused requested her to be present for a second interview. The woman claimed after she turned up at his premises, he asked her to give him a massage. She alleged after the bottle of oil fell, the accused raped her according to Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) he said the victim had informed reaction officers that she was in the company of her mother in Tongaat’s CBD when she was approached by a man. “The man had offered her a job as a receptionist at his business and asked her to come for an interview. When she pitched up for the interview, she realised that the address that was given was for a massage parlor. The man interviewed her in the presence of a another female and asked her to return two days later for another interview,” said Balram. He said the victim claimed that when she arrived for a second interview she was asked to return an hour later. “When she returned she found that the female was not there. The man continued with the interview. He then enquired whether she would do massages part time so that she could be given a permanent job as a receptionist. “She said she was not interested in the job as a masseuse. The suspect however was adamant that massaging was part of the job. She was taken into a room at the back. The victim informed officers that she was raped by force in the room,” said Balram.