On Monday, 14 January, Eskom put forward an application to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA), for a 15% increase in tariffs annually over the next three years. In addition, Eskom’s chief executive Phakamani Hadebe also appealed for more money from government to help the entity with is crippling debt of around R490 million owed to Eskom by non-paying municipalities. During the hearing, Hadebe apologised to citizens of the country for the mess the utility is in and for load shedding which he said could have been avoided. “I understand that an increase in tariff may be difficult at this time but not being granted a suitable increase could lead to an unsustainable financial position.” The public hearing held by NERSA are meant to allow the energy regulator to interrogate Eskom’s application which needs to meet with approval before it can be applied to customers. But, the looming increase has been met with outrage and fury from the public who are already buckling under financial strain and trying desperately to get by on a month to month basis. “So Eskom is owed R490 billion by municipalities who have not been paying for their electricity and now Eskom want to increase the tariffs for people who have been paying, so basically the people who’ve been paying all along must now pay more for the people who have not been paying?” one reader commented. “Let’s do some practical restructuring to Eskom’s fat salaries that they have been giving themselves over the last few years. How about the top notches cutting their fat salaries by 15% per year. No fat yearly bonuses either. That would bring in a very large income to Eskom. Why must the man in the street pay for their mess they have created. Maybe all the other places that have been plundered and brought to their knees should do the same. The same should be applied to all MP’s. Take a 15% cut in your salaries. Government should not allow new purchases of vehicles for the next five years. After the five years, place a limit on the price that may be paid for a vehicle. Government vehicles should be fleet vehicles that may only be sedans and not have an engine cc of more than an 1.8. Fleet vehicles may only be used for official duties and not for private use. If vehicles are found to be used for private use the official is banned for a period of a year to have access to fleet transportation and must make use of public transport just like everyone else. Government vehicles are filled up at the government garages. So those using those vehicles do not pay for fuel. It’s time to start pulling a few plugs instead of bleeding the man in the street dry,” another reader said.