A Mount Edgecombe resident watched in shock and horror as five armed suspects followed her daughter into their driveway and accosted her on Monday afternoon. “The complainant noticed that a black vehicle was following her daughter. Suddenly five men alighted from the vehicle and pointed a firearm at her daughter’s head whilst pulling her out of the vehicle. The complainant upon seeing what was happening, screamed and pressed the panic button. The five men grabbed the victim’s bag containing R600 cash and a cellphone and fled the scene. As the suspects were fleeing, they fired one gunshot. Fortunately, both the complainant and her daughter were not injured,” said Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo. An armed robbery case is under investigation.“We understand that the complainant panicked but in her panicked state, the daughter could have been injured fatally. We encourage the community to be calm in cases like this and cooperate with the criminals. As agitated as the complainant was, the suspects are in a state of panic as well. Life is precious,” said Cpt Naidoo. In a separate incident, a motorist and his occupants escaped harm but were left traumatised when two suspects cornered him in his Highstone driveway on Tuesday night and fled empty-handed after firing at the occupants. According to KZN VIP spokesman, Gareth Naidoo, members of KZN VIP were dispatched to reports of a hijacking in progress on Highstone Drive at approximately 8pm on Wednesday evening. “Upon the arrival of KZN VIP, it was determined that two suspects, both wielding firearms, approached the victim as he entered his driveway in his silver Toyota Avanza. The suspects removed the keys as they pointed a firearm at the victim and his occupants in the vehicle. The victim then pressed the hooter to call for help leading the suspects to open fire on the vehicle before fleeing in the direction of Bhambayi Grounds. The victims were highly traumatised. SAPS together with other security companies and CPF members stood off at the scene. Two bullet cartridges were found on scene and thankfully, no one was injured in the incident,” Naidoo said. Police are said to be investigating a case of attempted hijacking.