St Benedict School introduced its head and deputy prefects for the year 2019. Head prefect Jessica Collings, and deputy head prefect Dominique Strydom were announced at the schools final assembly in December last year voted for by the learners of school. Having to lead the prefects, head prefect Jessica Collings said, “When I was announced as head prefect it was a great shock but I felt both honoured and excited to be entrusted with this huge responsibility. I knew with Dominique at my side and the prefect body alongside us, we can experience a wonderfully successful year. I have survey as a head of alter service and head of enviro club, whilst also taking a lead role in the school’s tech team.” Deputy head prefect, Dominque Strydom said, “It was surreal as there were many strong candidates who could have been chosen. I felt honoured and excited to take on the new responsibility of supporting Jess in leading the student body. We as a group would like to leave a legacy that emphasises the importance of each individual in our school and wider community. We all need to inspire all to be significant and make a positive difference whether it is big or small.” Both the learners agreed that the school and the country needs people to get involved in improving life for all, become good citizens with moral standing whilst showing compassion for others. “Take pride in our school, our environment and our beautiful country.” In further agreement, the girls concluded by saying they have new plans and one is introducing the portfolio system, whereby the senior students will be encouraged to take a leading role in driving the different aspects of school life to new heights. They said they will motivate participation by all, because St Benedict is a small school where the efforts of each individual counts and is needed, whilst also maintaining discipline the girls said they will be playing the role of friend and foe at the same time as being a leader. In conclusion, the young leaders said time management will also be a challenge as matric is serious business but they have accepted the honour of leading the school and must deliver.