Police are probing the discovery of human remains which were found in one of the two compartments of a water reservoir in Verulam, on Friday. Ethekwini Municipality Acting Head of Communication Unit, Mandla Nsele, said, “The discovery was made by a Municipal official during a routine inspection of the reservoir, who immediately shut down the water compartment from the reservoir which was affected. The remains have been successfully removed of the reservoir compartment. The Municipality has since taken a decision to flush out the water in the affected compartment as a precautionary measure to ensure water safety. Furthermore, the Municipality will treat the compartment with chemicals to ensure that the water quality is not compromised moving forward.” “At this stage it is not clear how these human remains got into the reservoir compartment. The matter has been reported to SAPS for thorough investigation. The preliminary investigation has shown that the reservoir shutter doors were broken into,” said Nsele. “The Municipality monitors water quality daily and has found no problem with water quality in the other compartment. During the shutdown of the reservoir compartment, the water supply to the following areas is expected to be affected: Madrona Drive, Trenance Park, Tea Estate, Buffelsdraai, Valley view Drive, Hilltop Road and upper Amaoti. “The Municipality will dispatch water tankers to the affected areas to supply water. The Municipality would like to assure residents that the water quality is being monitored very closely and the water is safe for consumption. Regular updates will be provided to the public on an ongoing basis,” he added. Human Settlements and Infrastructure Committee Chairperson, Cllr Thanduxolo Sabela visited the Verulam Water reservoir on Saturday to inspect the draining out of water in the affected compartment. The public, meanwhile, has reacted with shock and horror when news of the human remains discovery broke and many took to the Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) Facebook page to air their views. One Facebooker commented, “That reservoir supplies water to SO many different areas. This is actually quite scary thinking of how many people have been drinking contaminated water!!” (sic)“Absolutely awful and scary to know so many people have been exposed to contaminated water! And secondly clearly an unsolved homicide that hopefully the police provide answers for especially for the family of the missing person,” a second comment read. (sic) “This explains why my son has been so sick lately,” stated another social media response. (sic)