Orchestrated power cuts by the electricity utility Eskom, has affected residents and business in Ward 25. Eskom recently began implementing rotational load shedding because of flooding that occurred at some of their power stations. The power utility said that this has resulted in a capacity shortage to supply the nation’s electricity demands. Frustrated residents and business owners in ward 25 are now bearing the brunt of these power outages. “Residents in the area have become vulnerable targets because alarms and driveway gates are not working.Businesses in the ward are also heavily affected because many small businesses don’t have back up generators and they lose income. As a result of this some staff have to be put on short time, ” said Councillor Hassan Haniff. The councillor said that metro police has had to come in to control traffic at intersections, due to dysfunctional robot lights and heavy rains. He wishes to commend the metro police for their sterling job, during this hectic time. ” The way forward is difficult, as many of my residents cannot afford to purchase generators or solar, while some can afford to buy two plate gas stoves. Why should the residents and rate payers who are contributors to this city, have to suffer and deal with expenses because of government’s failure,” said Haniff. He said that he is disappointed by the government’s failure to deal with this issue, especially in the midst of our country’s growing population. ” There are many tourists from other countries that are in my ward, what will they say? They will laugh at us and say that they do not have load shedding in their countries,” said Haniff. In a media statement, Eskom said that the probability for load shedding for the rest of the week remains high, in order to prevent load shedding in the following weeks.  ” We remind customers that load shedding regardless of the stage, are no cause for alarm as the systems is being effectively controlled. Load shedding is a responsible act and highly controlled process, implemented to protect the country from a national blackout. We continue to ask customers to reduce demand as a concerted collective effort that can help to avoid or lessen the level of load shedding,” said the power utility.