Criminals will meet the full might of the law this festive season and beyond, warned KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula, on Tuesday. He was addressing hundreds of police officers and delegates from various law enforcement agencies across the province, during the launch of the festive season safety plan at the Moses Mabhida Stadium’s Peoples Park. Police held mock demonstrations and active combat displays, celebrating the launch. Jula said more than 24 000 police officers would be on duty in the province during the festive season. He called for an increase in the arrest of law breakers during the highly anticipated season and beyond. He said this was the only way to keep visitors and locals safe. “We will close down illegal shebeens and arrest anyone who breaks the law. More police officers will be deployed to crime hotspots throughout the province,” Jula said. He said police would be at shopping centres and on beaches. They would be working closely with the Metro Police, Road Traffic Inspectorate, emergency services, Home Affairs and other law enforcement agencies. Bheki Ntuli, provincial MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, called on police to discharge their work without doubt to ensure they keep the province safe. He said police will mount roadblocks and do random searchers everywhere. He reiterated his instruction to practice their primary mandate, which is to protect the citizens. “You will be performing your task of protecting the law-abiding citizens from heavily armed criminals who are always prepared to discharge merciless and maximum brutality in our society,” said Ntuli. He declared a zero tolerance to acts of criminality, but also honoured road networks in communities. He added: “We must make sure lawbreakers feel the presence and the might of law. The people shall govern not the other way around. Police are charged with responsibility to defend people.” Law enforcement agencies believe that such safety campaigns are essential in helping to curb crime in communities.