Durban North’s non-profit organisation Action in Autism, has given their response and recommendations to the National Health Insurance Bill, in order to benefit those living with Autism. The organisation recognised for their work as a lobbyist, support and fundraising group, aims to improve the quality of life for individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders and their caregivers. Following an engagement and dialogue session the group has made recommendations to the NHI Bill, which seeks to provide essential healthcare to all citizens of South Africa regardless of employment status. According to director of Action in Autism Kirsten Miller, the organisation is firmly supportive of an NHI Bill which is an equitable healthcare system that serves all citizens in South Africa. “Currently, a lot of money is spent on healthcare, this amounts to almost nine percent of the Gross Domestic Product, but this is currently spent very badly. Neuro developmental conditions like autism spectrum disorders and mental health has particularly suffered from poor medical treatment, mismanagement and poor resource and infrastructure,” said Miller. The organisation feels strongly that the Autism Spectrum Disorder should be recognised as part of the basic package prescribed minimum benefits of the NHI Bill. In addition to expertise on mental health and neuro development management. In turn this will ensure that persons with disability and mental-ill health are prioritised. “Our community requires a one stop, multi-disciplinary team approach with people who are knowledgeable, who can support our community from a health and lifestyle perspective. “Our caregivers and parents need to be strengthened and empowered on how to support their people with autism,” said Miller. The non-profit organisation said that the path for this vulnerable community needs to be optimised, as autism spectrum disorders are a unique condition. ” When their social, psychological, health and educational needs are met, it impacts on generations to come. As they grow, the needs of our community also change, this needs to be recognised across the health value chain. Currently, this community is suffering immense health and psychological trauma,” added Miller. The NHI is said to be fully operational by 2026.