The law of common purpose has over the years resulted in a number of fatal hits masterminds, serving life sentences at Westville Prison and other prisons. In 99.9 percent of the cases, the person who hatched the hit and either paid or shortchanged the hitman (or hitmen) was not present at the crime scene, but was convicted in the magistrate’s court or high court, on the common purpose ground. In the common purpose doctrine, where two or more people act together, in a joint enterprise, they become liable for the crimes committed by their accomplices. In the South African legal system, the criminal law attributes blameworthiness to participants who have been implicit by (oral or written) agreement to commit a crime. For example where the fatal hit was carried out by only one of the members, the other people involved in the murder conspiracy will be arrested and charged too. However, the law is not unique to South Africa. The joint enterprise law is also applicable in the United Kingdom, Canada, Scotland and Australia. Among those found to have acted in common purpose and jailed for life were: Inderesan “Alvin” Maistry, was convicted and sentenced in 2016 by Acting Judge Burt Laing in the Durban High Court for hiring the hit men who abducted and killed his wife, Soraya “Charmaine” Naidoo. Maistry, grew up in Mobeni Heights and settled in Merebank with his second wife (Naidoo). His first wife died in an accident after her car brakes apparently failed. The court ruled that Maistry had hired hitmen Mandelenkosi Zamokhawakeh Jobe, and Bongani Lucky John Manyathi, to carry out the killing of Naidoo, a businesswoman, on 17 February 2014. Jobe and Manyathi are also serving life sentences. Pietermaritzburg businessman Rajivee Soni was jailed for life by the Pietermaritzburg High Court in September last year for the 2013 murder of Pietermaritzburg doctor, Bhavish Sewram. Sewram, was killed outside his surgery, in Chota Motala Road in Raisethorpe in May 2013. Soni believed that his wife, Kerusha, and Sewram were involved in a romantic relationship. Brian Treasurer, a former policeman, who was found guilty of hiring the hitmen to kill Sewram on Soni’s instructions, served two-years of his life sentence before he died in prison. Another hitman, Mfaniseni Nxumalo is also serving a life sentence.