The family of a murdered 50-year-old Ethekwini Municpality employee, are still reeling in shock as they prepare to lay him to rest on Saturday. Colin Pather, an employee in the finance department at the eThekwini Municipality, was gunned down at the gate of his home on Thursday, at around 5pm. According to reports, Pather sustained a single gun shot wound to the head, in what is believed to be an alleged hit. Charlene Pather, in a heartbreaking post on Facebook wrote: “My rock, my world, my favorite person.” She later posted the funeral details, “Friends and Family, it is with a very broken heart we extend the funeral notice of the Late Colin Pather. The body will lay in state from 11.30am to 3pm tomorrow, 14 December, then will proceed to Clare Estate Crematorium between 4pm to 5pm in Hall 3.” Amawele Emergency Services’ Sivan Subramodey said the paramedics were called out to the scene around 16.50. “We discovered the 50-year-old man with a single gunshot wound through the back of his head after he was shot execution style. The man was pronounced dead at the scene,” he said. Pather’s murder follows that of a 40-year-old Tongaat Durban Solid Waste employee, who was gunned down at the Ottawa Waste Management Offices. Two armed men entered the building and asked for him by name, before killing him in front of his colleague. In recent months DSW, has been gripped by allegations of tender fraud and corruption, amounting to R208 million, that ultimately led to the downfall of former eThekwini Mayor, Zandile Gumede. She and seven others were arrested for the alleged fraud, Gumede is currently out on R50 000 bail. Those arrested include councillors, prominent business owners and municipal employees. The most recent arrest was on Wednesday where 15 people were arrested which included four councillors, three contractors and municipal officials. This brings the number of those arrested thus far to 22, in relation to the multimillion rand tender fraud case. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed the arrests. He said: “The investigations are still ongoing. Let us allow the law to take its course.” Police have yet to confirm or deny whether the murder of Pather is linked to the tender fraud investigation. On Facebook Deven Dass wrote: “‪Sincerest condolences to you and your mum, we are devastated by this terrible tragedy. May God guide and protect you during this trying time.” While Devika Reddy wrote: “‪Our sincere condolences to your family Charlene. Our thoughts are with you and mum. This is such shocking news.”