Apart from the fantastic scenary, the South Coast has numerous attractions to make the festive season a memorable one for visitors. The local tourism implementing agency – Ugu South Coast Tourism (USCT) – is driving the ‘The Paradise of the Zulu Kingdom’ as an international attraction, boasting a range of exciting activities and heritage experiences all within some of the country’s most beautiful locations. There are many reasons the KZN South Coast continues to attract thousands of holidaymakers. One of our biggest strengths is the diversity of the region,” said Phelisa Mangcu, CEO of USCT. From our Blue Flag Beaches and internationally-rated diving sites, through to our nature reserves and extreme outdoor activities, everyone is ensured of a special holiday experience.” The attractions include:     Crocworld Conservation Centre..          The perfect family day out can be found in Scottburgh’s Crocworld n The centre is home to a wide variety of birds and animals. Make sure to visit at 11am or 3pm for the crocodile feeding and talk. The December holiday programme also includes a snake demonstration at 10.15am and vulture feeding every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday at 2pm. KwaNzimakwe Multi-TrailsGet a taste of traditional culture and natural beauty through any of the three recently-opened multi-trails – the 20km 4×4 trail; 10 km trail run; or the 4km hiking trail traversing the Mpenjati River Valley. Shark DivingGet an up-close experience with some of the oceans’ most important inhabitants with expert divers. Wild 5 AdventuresSuspension bridges…wild water rafting…abseiling…foefie sliding and wild swing jumps. If it’s extreme, Oribi’s Wild 5 Adventures has it and feel the ultimate adrenaline rush. Vernon Crookes Nature ReserveExperience the grassland, parkland, wetland and coastal forest habitats indigenous to this area and home to more than 300 bird species and a variety of beautiful wildlife.Surfing lessonsFind out what all the fuss is about by taking up some introductory surf lessons with any number of local surf schools. Gamalakhe TownshipGet a taste of local history during this enlightening township experience, discovering the history of forced removals and establishment of Tin Town. This is also home to the vibrant Ugu Sport & Leisure Centre was created as a practice stadium for the 2010 FIFA World Cup™, an ideal venue for conferences, events and exhibitions.Nkomba Conservation AreaTake a hike through the recently rehabilitated Nkomba site located within the Pennington Conservancy. This significant environmental gem gives visitors a view of what can be achieved when a space is transformed back to its natural status. MTB TrailsThe incredible natural landscape within the KZN South Coast has seen mountain bikers countrywide and beyond drawn to the many well-maintained trails. Ingeli Forest Lodge, Lake Eland Nature Reserve, Clearwater Trails, Rocky Bay…and so many more trails to explore on the KZN South Coast! The Golf CoastA golfer’s holiday dream, the region is home to 11 golfing destinations, most of them set against a backdrop of endless ocean views and designed within the indigenous coastal vegetation.