Want to make a difference this festive season and give hope to those in need of blood? Want to do your bit for the community but not sure how? Here is your opportunity to help others selflessly by giving the gift of life which is priceless. The South African National Blood Service (SANBS) is calling on the public to donate blood this festive season. According to SANBS, there is an increase in the number of road accidents that occur during the holiday season, which in turn means that there is an increase in the need for blood and blood products. Head of marketing Phumzile Zulu, said that the organisation needs to collect approximately 3500 units of blood daily in order to meet the needs of all patients nationally. “When we don’t have enough blood, we cannot meet the demand for the blood. If a doctor has to asks for five units of blood for a patient, we will not be able to supply the full five and may be only able to provide three. This may result in loss of lives,” said Zulu. Join the Blood Camp Foresthaven Secondary School group on Facebook to keep up to date with all related information. For any further information contact 084 553 8206.The SANBS divides each unit of blood into three components, red blood cells, platelets and plasma. Every component has its own purpose and the patient will be given what they need instead of the whole unit. “The blood could possibly be used for a women in labour who has lost blood and needs it to survive, a cancer patient or a burn victim. Each unit has the potential to save three lives,” said Zulu. Donors are advised to start building up on their iron levels, maintain a healthy lifestyle and avoid drinking tea or coffee before donating as this might affect their iron level. The organisation is in need of all blood group, which includes A, B, AB, and O. Donors must meet the following criteria before donating: • They must be between the ages of 16 to 75. • They must lead a sexually safe lifestyle and consider their blood safe for transfusion.  • They must have a minimum weight of 50kgs.  • They must be in good health.  • They must have a meal at least four hours prior to their donation. • All donors are to bring along their I.D documents. For more information on the South African National Blood Service, please visit the SANBS website.