Right in the midst of the SAPS 16 Days of Activism campaign, a shattered rape victim, 20, learnt that her rapist ex-boyfriend will spend the next 34 years in jail for the heinous crimes he executed against her in Verulam, in 2018. Sfiso Gcabashe , 21, kidnapped his ex-girlfriend and raped her three times while also assaulting her. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said that on 14 August 2018, at about 9pm, the victim was chatting to her friend on the road when her ex-boyfriend came up to her and demanded that she leave with him. “The victim refused and the suspect grabbed her by the hair and dragged her to the nearby dam. The victim pleaded with the suspect to let her go but he refused and threatened her with a knife. The suspect said he would stab the victim and throw her into the dam. “Afraid he was going to do that, the victim jumped into the dam. The suspect followed and caught her. He began to strangle her. The victim fought back but the suspect overpowered her and dragged her out,” Naidoo said. She said that the suspect took advantage of the wet and exhausted victim. “He undressed her and himself and raped her without a condom. He then gave her his clothing from a bag and said she will not be returning home but will be going with him to the farm,” Cpt Naidoo said. “The victim begged to be released but the suspect took a screwdriver and stabbed her all over her body. The suspect and victim continued walking during which the suspect raped the victim a second time. They hitched a lift to Mandeni and proceeded to the suspect’s mother’s house where the suspect raped her again,” added Cpt Naidoo. She said: “The suspect informed the victim.The victim fought back but the suspect overpowered her and dragged her out,” Naidoo said.She said that the suspect took advantage of the wet and exhausted victim. “He undressed her and himself and raped her without a condom. He then gave her his clothing from a bag and said she will not be returning home but will be going with him to the farm,” Cpt Naidoo said. “The victim begged to be released but the suspect took a screwdriver and stabbed her all over her body. The suspect and the victim continued walking, during which the suspect raped the victim a second time. They hitched a lift to Mandeni and proceeded to the suspect’s mother’s house where the suspect raped her again,” added Cpt Naidoo.She said: “The suspect informed the victim that he was not using a condom because he wanted to infect her with the HIV virus. The next morning, the victim was given water to bath and she was instructed to wash the suspect’s clothes. The suspect’s mother left to work and upon her return, she enquired about the victim’s injuries. He allegedly told his mother that he did everything out of love for the victim. His mother scolded him and instructed him to send the victim home.”“The victim returned home and reported the horrific events to her mother. A case was opened at Verulam SAPS and transferred to Phoenix FCS unit. Investigations commenced and the suspect was arrested in Eshowe. Bail was denied and the suspect was remanded in custody,” said Cpt Naidoo.Investigating officer, Sgt Ndlovu, was commended by the branch commander for the sterling investigation which saw a rapist convicted and sentenced.“We urge victims of rape and abuse to break the silence so their attackers and assailants can face the long arm of the law and be punished accordingly. We cannot turn a blind eye to such violence and abuse against women.  Women in such situations must stand up in the face of their adversity and this will encourage other women to speak out too,” Cpt Naidoo added.