South Africa is on a winning streak, just a month after the Springboks brought the 2019 World Cup trophy home, 26-year-old Zozibini Tunzi has brought the Miss Universe crown back to South Africa. Tunzi was applauded all over the world for winning the pageant hosted in Atlanta, USA on Sunday, 8 December. Durban resident and Miss SA finalist Danielle Wallace who was together with Tunzi during the Miss SA competition said that it was destiny that she won. ” She made us proud on that international stage. They couldn’t have chosen a better person to represent our country,” said Wallace. Veteran in the pageant industry, Pinky Mothie said that Tunzi’s win is a big step for all South African women in the country. ” I have been routing for Zozibini since the Miss South Africa pageant, and I was so exited when she was crowned Miss Universe on Sunday,” said Mothie. She said that pageants are a way of empowering women. “It also gives them access to opportunities. Many women who have entered pageants tell me that a lot of doors have opened for them because of these competitions,” said Mothie When host Steve Harvey asked her what we should be teaching young girls today, Tunzi said: “Leadership, is something that has been lacking in young girls and women for a long time, not because we don’t want to, but because of what society has labeled women to be. I think we are the most powerful beings in the world and that we should be given every opportunity. Young girls should be taught to ‘take up space’ in society.The world was buzzing with proud moments after her closing statement: “I grew up in a world where a woman who looks like me, with my kind of skin and my kind of hair, was never considered to be beautiful. I think that it is time that stops today,” she said. Oprah Winfrey agreed with Tunzi saying: ” I agree with you. Leadership is the most powerful thing we should be teaching young women today. We welcome your visit to our Leadership Academy for Girls. President Cyril Ramaphosa released an official statement on Twitter, congratulating Tunzi on her Miss Universe win.Tunzi is the third Miss South Africa to wear the Miss Universe crown. Margaret Gardiner wore it in 1978 and Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters in 2017.