Parliament was shocked to hear that there were more than 57 major explosions, fires, gas leaks and other incidents at industries and factories in the Durban South region from 2000 to June 2016. The Enviromental Affairs Portfolio Committee which sat in Parliament in Cape Town on 27 November, said it intends flying to Durban in the new year to get to the bottom of the incidents, which occurred at Engen in Wenthworth, Sapref in Isipingo and factories in the South Basin. Attempts by officials from the eThekwini Municipality’s Health Department to paint a rosy picture of pollution in the city, backfired after the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance (SDCEA) had its say. The committee members questioned why the city was not upfront and they had to hear from NGO’s like the SDCEA about how the health of toddlers, other children and adults including the elderly were compromised by the explosions, flares and other incidents. Bongani Mthembu, the Air Quality and Geographical Information Systems Officer at the SDCEA, ruffled feathers when he informed the committee that:• There was an explosion at Engen in 2011. More than 100 pupils from Settlers Primary School in Merebank experienced breathing problems and  had to be rushed to Wentworth Hospital, King Edward VIII Hospital and RK Khan Hospital. Some parents who had medical aid took their children to private hospitals. • A privately owned truck, several months ago, spilled an oily substance in Basil February Road which separates Merebank and Wentworth. Mthembu told Parliament that the incident happened shortly after the truck was filled with the substance at the Engen plant. The committee heard that a young motorist from Merebank died after his vehicle skidded and somersaulted on the same road, shortly after the spillage. • The committee chairperson permitted Mthembu to question a board member of Engen about the tragedy. Mthembu claimed that Engen ought to have taken responsibility for the motorist’s death and that the buck stops with them. Engen in response, however claimed that it cannot be held liable for the tragedy because the truck was privately owned. • In 2016 two workers died in an explosion at the Sapref plant in Isipingo. One died at the scene and another passed away in hospital. Sapref in absentia got a tongue lashing from the committee for not being present in Parliament. Mthembu told the committee that attempts by the SDCEA to ascertain whether the third victim of the explosion was alive or dead were in vain.