“A good woman doesn’t have to look like a model, cook like a chef, or have the body of a 20-year-old. Don’t judge her by centrefold standards. No one will be young and beautiful forever. Look within her to see her true value.”These are the words of the multi-talented Melanie Kisten, winner of the Mrs Uniworld South Africa 2019, pageant that was held recently. Kisten, 39, lives on the Bluff, She is an actress, a dance teacher, a wife, a mother and a businesswoman. Kisten  has a heart of gold and is devoted to helping the community. It is her passion for humanity that makes her shine.   Kisten, says that women need to make time to explore themselves and using platforms like Mrs Uniworld helps. She considered the pageant as a platform for woman empowerment and feels that with the title comes responsibilities. Kisten dedicates her win to the upliftment and empowerment of all women and youth. “Empowered youth become empowered adults. My crown will echo dignity, trust and purpose,” said Kisten.   Apart from winning the title, Kisten also received three additional prestigious awards: Best Talent – for her singing, dancing and acting based on woman abuse, Mrs Humanitarian – for her charity work and Mrs Congeniality – which was voted by the contestants. Kisten’s next challenge is the international leg for Mrs Uniworld where she will be representing South Africa in 2020.Kisten was also first runner up for the Mrs India SA pageant held in 2010. She is currently involved with   • The Bluff Hope Centre which provides meals five days a week, for 100 needy people.  • The Melanie Kisten Dance Academy (MKDA) Bursary Fund: Helps kids from the community with school fees, shoes, books or lunch.   • The Joshua Singh Foundation: Caters for needy children and was launched this year after nine-year-old Joshua sadly passed away. Joshua used to save a slice of lunch every day to give to a street child.  Those interested in assisting with the charity projects can contact Kisten on mkda1zn@gmail.com or 0832351207.