An uMlazi man who killed his girlfriend because she threatened to leave him, exited the Durban High Court quickly, after a judge jailed him for 15-years last week.Khayelihle Innocent Mjoka (27) tendered a guilty plea. The court heard that he and his girlfriend, Philile Nonkanyiso Mbongo, 25, had a four-year-old child. In a twist, Mjoka will be behind bars for several Christmas’. He told the court that his relationship with Mbongo began on Christmas Day in 2015. “I supported her and the child with the little that I earned working at the taxi rank washing minibus taxis. I also contributed financially to her child from her previous relationship,” he said. He said he got angry after Mbongo informed him that she wanted to re-kindle the relationship with the father of her older child. “We argued a lot. I assaulted her. She took our daughter and moved out. She obtained a protection order against me. On the eve of the murder, my friends and I drank two cases of beer and a bottle of vodka. We also smoked crack cocaine. I contacted Philile so that I could speak to my child. Philile however said they were not at home and she had moved on with her life,” said Mjoka.He testified that he pulled out a spear and went to the house she was staying “When I noticed love bites on her neck I became furious. I subsequently snapped and stabbed her several times before fleeing the scene of the crime. After I was arrested, I confessed and showed police the murder weapon. I am remorseful for killing the woman I loved,” he said. Attorney Pregasen Marimuthu, of Legal Aid SA who represented Mjoka, asked Judge Rashid Vahed not to jail the accused for life. “The accused is a young man. He has realized that he made a huge mistake and did not waste the time and resources of the National Prosecuting Authority by pleading guilty,” said Marimuthu. Judge Vahed said the state had changed its contention that the murder was premeditated, because it was not planned. Therefore the prescribed sentence – life was not applicable in this case. “Nobody wins in cases like these. The mother of the four-year-old child was murdered. The child’s father is behind bars. I hope that the accused will use the time in prison to be rehabilitated and to come out a better person.”