Sea Cow Lake residents have been left furious and frustrated after being left without electricity for three days. According to a resident in the area, the electricity went off as part of scheduled load shedding on Monday at midnight but stayed off after the electricity was due to switch back on. The Maynard Road resident said that when checking on why the electricity was not restored, he discovered that during the load shedding, the electricity cable was stolen. The resident said that he called the municipality who sent a representative to check but, up to Thursday he has had no power. “I was told by the municipality that I need to report cable theft to the police. The Greenwood Park Police told me it was the municipal’s job to report the theft as they had to fill in some forms. Together with the police, we spoke to the municipal representative on the line,” he said. The resident said that he spoke with his ward councillor Bobby Maharajh who said he had forwarded his case to the municipal representative. Councillor Maharajh confirmed logging the complaint with the municipality on the resident’s behalf. “I informed him that there were numerous complaints received from residents. This is not unusual as the Kenville and Sea Cow Lake areas are inundated with illegal connections and cable theft. I also informed him that all the reference numbers sent to me were immediately directed to the manager at the Electricity Department for his immediate attention,” said Maharajh. However, Maharajh said that when the resident informed him that someone had come to his residence from the department, he  briefed him on the procedures when an electricity reference number is secured by the complainant. “The first step is for a technician to arrive and identify the problem. This was done as confirmed by the complainant. The technician then has to report the problem to the depot. This also was done.  The delay could be caused because there are no cables in stock. I have forwarded a complaint to a senior official in the Electricity Department with the objective of expediting the complaint,” said Maharajh. With regards to the cable theft, Maharajh said that there have been inter-alia thefts of electrical cables from residents in the above-mentioned areas. “The introduction of load shedding has seen an escalation of crime throughout Ward 34 and more recently, the destruction caused by a fire in the Gumtree Informal Settlement that saw 195 shacks razed to the ground and heavy losses suffered by over 600 settlers,” said Maharajh. The resident believes his complaint was set aside due to the fact that he was told that he was arguing the point as to why he had to go to the police station and get a case number for the theft that belongs to the municipality. “I believe all calls are recorded and this will be to my favour. I was calling the centre almost every hour and was only told to get a case number after 30 hours. I spoke to many call centre agents, some very rude and two supervisors. I have spoilt food, elderly parents without hot water and hot food in a cold rainy weather. I have lost all my pet marine fish, batteries have run dead and have to be replaced, two electronic gates, garage door motors, and three alarm batteries. I had also purchased steel conduit to secure the new cable fitted on the light pole,’ said the irate resident. Attempts to get feedback from eThekwini Municipality on the electricity crisis in Ward 34 was unsuccessful.