After days of searching and waiting, the family of a six-year-old girl who went missing after being swept away by floodwaters in Emagwaveni, Tongaat, is feeling relieved now that her remains have been found. The remains of Nokubonga Ngidi, were found on Sunday by the search and rescue team, some distance away from where she was last seen. This was after hundreds of volunteers joined the team in the search for Ngidi, who was swept away while attempting to cross an overflowing Tongaat River. She had been on her way to the tuckshop on Thursday afternoon, when tragedy struck. The incident was witnessed by her mother, who was watching from her home. The deceased’s aunt, Thabisile Mocheko, said the family was relieved by the discovery of child’s body. She said: “We want to express our love and gratitude to the volunteers as well as the search and rescue team who gave up their precious time to find her. We had lost hope that we would ever find her body at all, but we are glad that we are going to be able to bury her remains.” Mocheko said it was difficult for the family to accept that Nokubonga was gone. “We believe in the power of prayer. We pray that one day we will have peace and acceptance,” he said. Tongaat police confirmed the discovery of child’s remains.Nazir Sadack, of Community Emergency Response Tongaat (CERT), said the remains were found around 10am. He said: “We brought the body to the road and handed it to Tongaat police. We send our condolences to the family, friends and relatives.” He admitted that it was a closure to the child’s family after an intense search. “The team and volunteers did a sterling job during the search. Plastic bottles afloat the river, made the search a challenge,” Sadack said Around 20 people died in extreme weather, including flooding and at least two tornadoes, which hit the province in the past month. In separate incident, a 41-year-old man lost his life after the house wall fell on him in Machobeni area, Inanda. On Friday, eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, accompanied by disaster management visited various flood-stricken areas to assess the damage caused by heavy rainfall. Kaunda, expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the deceased and wished all injured a speed recovery.