American stand-up comedian Dan Frigolette is set to bring his brand of edgy yet hilarious humour to Durban for the very first time. Frigolette, a well known figure in the New York comedy circuit, will perform his much celebrated show “Naked and Amused” on 9 March at the Havana Room at Moses Mabhida Stadium. Frigolette tours around the world and has previously visited South Africa but did not get the opportunity to perform in KwaZulu Natal until now. Frigolette, in addition to being an a stand-up comedian, is also an actor who has been seen on television shows including on the Bob and Tom Show, HBO’s Boardwalk Empire, Show Me A Hero, Younger, Sexy Beasts, ElimiDate, The Following, Wendy Williams Show, and the Artie Lange Show. He is the executive producer of The Apartmentship with Andrew Schulz, Stonehenge Oh Yeah with James Manzello, The Hoboken Comedy Festival, NJFunnyfest and other projects. He also produces the hilarious podcast Porn Stars Are People Too. He got his start in Syracuse NY in a now debunked club in the basement of the Hotel Syracuse called Viva Debris, run by Joe DeLion. Now a New York City circuit regular, Dan finds joy in travelling the country to small towns, to entertain folks. His stage prose is energetic and high paced, with a wit that stops hecklers in their tracks. He travels the United States with his pitmatian Tess, raising money for various animal charities, and rubbing people’s bellies. His first comedy album Naked and Amused: Comedy At A Nudist Colony, came out in late 2017. He’s recently been featured in South Africa on SABC3’s Trending SA, WTF Tumi and The Stuart Taylor Show. Frigolette says he is thrilled to be performing in Durban during his visit to South Africa as the city has gained a reputation as a serious comedy hub. Audiences are warned to leave their sensitivities at home. Naked and Amused takes place on 9 March at 8pm at the Havana Room ( next to Cuba Lounge) Moses Mabhida Stadium. Tickets are R150 from Computicket or any Checkers. Frigolette will be supported by local artists.