Intense police investigations are underway in the mass shooting that claimed four lives including that of an off-duty Metro Police officer and his girlfriend at his residential flat on JN Singh Street (formerly known as Baker Street), in the Durban CBD, on Monday. The identities of the deceased are yet to be revealed as police delve into the reason behind the shocking shooting incident and inform the deceaseds’ next of kin. Describing the shooting scene as a bloodbath, Rescue Care operations director, Garrith Jamieson, said, “Three people have been killed and six others injured after a shooting incident in Baker Street in Durban Central just after 11:30am on Monday morning. Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene and were escorted into a block of flats where the shooting had occurred. Paramedics found multiple casualties and immediately called for more units to be dispatched as well as Advanced Life Support paramedics. Paramedics found that two males and a female had sustained fatal injuries and were declared deceased at the scene. Six others had sustained injuries ranging from minor to critical and were stabilised on the scene before five of them were transported to various Durban hospitals for the further care that they required.” Police spokesperson, Col Thembeka Mbele, confirmed that the fourth victim passed away in hospital on Tuesday night following the shooting and said charges of murder and attempted have been opened for investigation at the Durban Central police station. Police said a firearm was recovered at the scene. Speaking to The Weekly Gazette, Metro Police spokesman, Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, said the 39-year-old off-duty Metro Police officer, a woman and a second male were fatally shot in the Durban CBD shooting. “Metro Police senior management has met with the family of the deceased officer and have offered to assist them during this tragic period. We have also offered trauma counselling to the Metro Police officers who responded to the scene,” said Sewpersad. “The slain Metro Police officer was based at the Albert Park station. He was a humble person. At this stage, we are unable to comment on the deceased officer’s role in the shooting or whether he was drinking, as the matter is under investigation. We await the outcome from both the police investigators and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate,” added Sewpersad. According to reports, the off-duty Metro cop and friends had allegedly been consuming alcohol and a dispute broke out leading to the fatal shooting.