Applications for special votes for the by-elections taking place on 7 August are now open. Special votes will take place on 6 August from 8am to 5pm. Special votes are for those who cannot make it to the voting stations on 07 August between 7am and 9pm or for those who have physical difficulty in making it to the station. All voting stations in all wards will be open and the IEC will be doing home visits for the disabled, pregnant, or elderly. You can apply for a special vote if:    • You are a registered voter;• Have a valid South African identity document (green, barcoded ID book; smartcard ID, or a valid Temporary Identity Certificate) To check that you’re registered and to find out where you’re registered, you can: • Check your your voter registration status; • SMS your ID number to 32810; or • Call the IEC’s contact centre on 0800 11 800. By law, you can apply for a special vote if you:
• Can’t travel to your voting station because you are physically infirm, disabled or pregnant, or can not vote at your voting station on election day. How to apply for a special vote at your voting station:• Sms your identity number to 32249 (R1.00 per SMS). For special vote at a voting station ONLY. • By visiting your local IEC office, not the national or provincial offices and submitting a VEC1  form. Forms can only be hand-delivered (no emails or faxes accepted), but someone else can deliver your completed form on your behalf. You will receive an SMS notifying you of the outcome once your application has been processed, but you can also check the status of your special vote application online. How to apply for a home visit;• By having a family member or friend visit your local IEC office (not the national or provincial offices) and submitting a VEC1 form. Forms can only be hand-delivered (no emails or faxes accepted), but someone else can deliver your completed form on your behalf. You will receive an SMS notifying you of the outcome once your application has been processed, but you can also check the status of your special vote application online.  to apply for a special vote online visit www.elections .org