Direct from Durban comes the deliciously funny Mzansi Comedy All-Stars Show, dished up and ready to be served for the first time to Newcastle audiences by some of the most sizzling comedy acts in the country. Mzansi Comedy All Stars features stand-up comics and viral video stars, Masood Boomgaard and Bash with Tash, who collectively have earned millions of views on social media platforms and played to packed out houses across the country. Together, the duo will take the audience on a hilarious cultural adventure, tapping into their experiences growing up in Indian communities in different parts of Durban, telling laugh out loud funny, anecdotes about over-bearing parents, drunk uncles and down right crazy grandparents. The show will also be peppered with great gags on everyday stuff like relationships, the economy, politics and social media. There’s bound to be something for everyone. Bash with Tash, real name Natashia Portrag, shot to fame in December 2016 when  she spontaneously uploaded a comic commentary by herself on Facebook which soared to hundreds of thousands of views. Subsequent videos only heightened her popularity and now she has legions of fans locally and abroad in places like Australia and the United Kingdom. Bash with Tash is best known for her incredible ability to improvise on stage and crowd interaction. Her spontaneity ensures that no two shows are the same. Fresh from his recent tours of Australia, Dubai, UK and America, Durbanite Masood Boomgaard is best known for his unique comedic take on current affairs and trends, tackling a variety of topics from politics and sports to the economy and relationships. He often also uses the stage to reflect on his childhood and experiences growing up in a mixed race family. He also recently appeared on Comedy Central. He recently performed his show “African Indian” on London’s West End and received rave reviews. Monde Blose and Mangaliso Mhlongo are together considered comedy’s next hot property. The KZN comics are well travelled and have appeared alongside some of the biggest acts in the country. Blose was a runner-up in the recent Savanna Kill or Die competition and together with Mhlongo will appear in the Heat City Comedy Festival. Mzansi Comedy All-Stars takes place on 26 July at the Style and Grace Wedding and Conference Venue in Newcastle at 8pm. Call 060-509-5639 to book.