Durban born model and former Mr KZN, Amro Gabriels has once again put the City of Durban on the map. Gabriels has been shortlisted as one of the top 12 contestants for the Mr World South Africa pageant. The winner of the top 12 will be announced on Friday, 12 July and will go on to represent South Africa at the Mr World event which will take place in the Philippines, in August this year. Tabloid Newspapers had a chat with Gabriels about his life and passion. Tabloid Newspapers (TN): 
In a nutshell who is Amro Gabriels? Amro Gabriels (AG): Amro Gabriels is the person you call when you are stuck on the highway at midnight with a tyre puncture. TN: How do you feel about being one of the top 12 contestants for Mr World South Africa? AG: I feel that I’m beyond grateful to be a part of this journey with 11 other amazing gentlemen. This is one of, if not the most exciting period of my modelling career, as this competition is a step towards Mr World, which is the most coveted event in male pageantry worldwide. TN: What motivated you to enter this pageant ? AM: Ever since I started modelling, I’ve been inspired by the Mr World event, which only takes place biennially. One of my biggest dreams from a young age was to compete in this prestigious event, as not only does it open huge doors, but it also allows an amazing platform 
from which you can inspire those that you love, as well as create a wave of inspiration across the whole world. TN: Is this your first pageant or have you competed in other pageants previously? AM: I’ve competed in many pageants over the years, most notable of those would be the Mr KZN, which I was fortunate enough to win, as well as Mr South Africa, where I was also blessed enough to have come out in the top six nationally. Without my family and close friends’ support, none of it would have been possible. TN: When did you start taking an interest in modelling? Tell us about your very first modelling experience. AM: I started modelling in 2012 and it wasn’t completely intentional! I was dropping off my younger brother for a photoshoot, and a modelling agency owner insisted that I join my brother in the shoot. The rest was history! TN: What is the criteria of the Mr World SA pageant? What are the judges looking for and what does the pageant focus on ? AM: The MWSA Pageant looks at finding a well balanced man; who strives to not only making
 a difference in conjunction with the Beauty With A Purpose Campaign, but also balanced in living a healthy lifestyle and one who understands the importance of social media and multimedia! 
The bonus, you don’t necessarily need to be a model. TN: If you win the coveted title, how do you plan on using this platform to make a difference in your country? AM: Education to me is extremely important. Part of my current work is as a director of an organisation known as Role Models Foundation, which creates, develops, and funds pre-schools in underprivileged areas nationally. If I win the title, God willing, or even if I don’t, I have plans of building a life rehabilitation and education 
centre for destitute youth, starting the project in my city of Durban. Winning the title would 
help, but my plans are to pursue this goal nevertheless. TN: Apart from modelling, what do you do ? AM: I have recently been blessed with the most amazing gift, a little baby girl, Amrienta, who has added a light into mine and my beautiful wife’s lives. Fatherhood now takes the majority of my time, but I couldn’t have it any other way! TN: What are your aspirations in life ? AM: Firstly, my ultimate aspiration is to see myself and my family as happy as we can possibly be, through living life at our full potential in all facets, and secondly, I wish to see the whole world unite with one another, and for love and unity to become more mainstream than hate and division. TN: Run us through a day in your life ? AM: Weekdays are normally very long for me, as I have to juggle between work, gym, fatherhood and family, but I always manage to end the day with a smile, thanks to my understanding wife! TN: What do you enjoy doing in your leisure time? AM: To be honest, it’s not always that I have leisure time, but when I do, family comes first! TN: Having celebrated Youth Month recently, what is your message to the youth out there ? AM: I can’t stress enough the importance of reading to the youth. Reading will lighten up 
your world and set you free. You cannot think 
for yourself, if you do not read for yourself. 
And as cliché as it sounds, but you will only 
fail at something once you stop pursuing whatever it is that you are pursuing. If you don’t stop, there is always inevitably a chance of success.