An alleged drug queen was amongst the three suspects arrested in a Phoenix drug raid held by various law enforcement agencies in the early hours of Thursday morning. Provincial police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, said, “An intelligence driven operation was conducted by members of the South African Police Services and Durban Metro Police in Phoenix which resulted in the recovery of drugs to the value of more than one million rands. The police officers raided identified premises suspected to be manufacturing drugs in Phoenix.” “Three suspects aged between 30 and 48 were arrested and they will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court soon. A total of 24096 heroin capsules, 809 crack cocaine pieces, 1068 mandrax tablets, one and a half kilogram of heroin powder, four bags of cocaine, 287 ecstasy pills, three two-way radios, one unlicensed firearm and various ammunition were recovered.” Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said, “An operation was held at the infamous Scrooty’s Drug Den, by eThekwini Outer North Crime Intelligence, Durban Metro Drug Task Team, Durban Metro Dog Unit, NIU, Shongweni K9 and PHQ OC which led to the arrests of high level syndicate members.” According to Cpt Naidoo, Christoff Emanuel Joseph (Skully) was arrested for dealing and possession of heroin, crack cocaine and ecstasy. “Police seized heroin capsules, crack cocaine pieces, large pieces of crack cocaine, four bags of cocaine, 60 ecstasy pills, one kilogram of heroin powder, all to the value of R597, 160 00. He appeared in Verulam Magistrate’s Court. In the second arrest, Jessica Goolam Hoosen was arrested for dealing and possession of heroin, mandrax and crack cocaine and unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. Police seized heroin capsules, mandrax tablets, crack cocaine, ecstasy pills, heroin powder, a Glock firearm, a magazine, 19 live rounds, a shotgun, three live shotgun rounds, three two-way radios, and various other drug paraphernalia, all to the value of over R1 million,” Cpt Naidoo said. “In the third arrest, Nazama Banu Khan was arrested for possession of crack cocaine, mandrax and ecstasy where exhibits seized were large pieces crack cocaine, crack cocaine pieces, mandrax tablets and ecstasy pills, valued at about R2, 350. The total value of the recovered drugs in the three raids is estimated at over R1, 8 million,” added Cpt Naidoo. Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, hailed the bust as a great success, and said, “We commend the various police units on this incredible effort in weeding out drug dealers from the community. They are making noticeable headway. Police are working in unison to clean the streets of Phoenix and we as the community need to support them by providing information of drug dealers in the area. All informants can retain anonymity and help us to take back our town from those who are destroying it.”