Comrades Marathon Association (CMA) Chairperson, Cheryl Winn has issued a huge vote of thanks to all Comrades Marathon runners, supporters, sponsors and the public for their generosity and goodwill over this year’s 94th Comrades Marathon. The CMA officially handed over the funds raised from the 2019 Comrades Marathon to its six official Amabeadibeadi Charities on Thursday, 11 July . The officially recognised Comrades Amabeadibeadi charities are the Durban and Pietermaritzburg Community Chests, Childhood Cancer Foundation (CHOC), Hillcrest Aids Centre Trust, Hospice Palliative Care Association, Wildlands Conservation Trust and World Vision SA, who through the Comrades Marathon’s fundraising platform and their own efforts, raised nearly  R4.4-million.  Winn said, the amount includes R321,900 in direct voluntary donations from runners with their entries. R3,65-million was raised through the Race4Charity initiative whereby runners commit themselves to raising funds for the charity of their choice. A further R117 000 was raised through Amabeadibeadi and other charitable product sales as well as R147 000 as a result of the individual charities own initiatives. “A total of R147 080 was raised for charity through ticket sales at the Comrades Expo and via the app for the annual Toyota Win-A-Car lucky draw which took place on Comrades race day,” added Winn. She said, “The CMA’s top Race4Charity fundraiser was Dean Wight who raised more than R350 000 for the Hillcrest Aids Centre Trust, followed by Axel Rittershaus and Tracy Bambers.” Axel Rittershaus for CHOC (Childhood Cancer Foundation) raised R82 315; Tracy Bamber for Wildlands Conservation Trust R50 560; Mike Cowling for Community Chest Pietermaritzburg R49 950; Heather Lock for CHOC (Childhood Cancer Foundation) R43 700; Justine Rae for Wildlands Conservation Trust R40 505; Mauritz Oberholzer for Hospice Palliative Care Association R39 585; Barry Holland for Community Chest Durban R38 600 and Pat Freeman for CHOC (Childhood Cancer Foundation  R3 507. Winn said, “The Comrades Marathon Amabeadibeadi Charities handover is always a special occasion for us  at the CMA. In as much as this marks the closing chapters of the 2019 Comrades Marathon, it is also an incredibly inspirational moment for all those who put their hearts into charitable giving. We salute each and every runner who has donated to our fundraising drive as well as all of the official charities who gave of their best to make the 2019 Comrades Marathon that much more special.” CMA charities convenor, Mqondisi Ngcobo said, “The work that our official charities are involved with in bettering the social and environmental landscape of South Africa is nothing short of phenomenal. From small beginnings, more than 20-years-ago, the CMA’s charitable endeavours have gradually born fruit, to the extent that over the past 10 years, we have enabled our designated official Comrades charities to benefit to the tune of nearly R40-million through the generosity of our runners, sponsors, supporters and the general public. We are grateful to you all.” CMA general manager, Keletso Totlhanyo says, “Well done and a huge thank you to each of our Race4Charity runners. We salute you for combining your personal passion with a purpose; and are certain that such generosity will serve to inspire many more athletes to join in the fundraising spirit and give back to South Africa.”