Several police officers from the disbanded Organised Crime Unit in Cato Manor, recently walked free  in the Durban High Court after racketeering, murder and attempted murder charges were quashed. Retired Hawks head, Johan Booysen, who led the Cato Manor Organised Crime Unit, and his 26 colleagues were told by Judge Kate Pillay, that they were free. It however did not come as a surprise to the policemen that the racketeering (which was the only charge Booysen faced), murder and attempted murder charges had collapsed. That is because a few days earlier, Shamila Batohi, the national boss of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), announced that all the charges against the accused were going to be withdrawn. There is however one proviso. Batohi has instructed Elaine Zungu,  the acting head of the NPA in KZN to peruse the murder and attempted murder dockets individually and to make informed decisions on whether any officer should be indicted again.      Booysen has always alleged that the charges were rooted in “state capture” and were an attempt to stop investigations into allegations of corruption and fraud against senior police officials and businessmen, including Edward Zuma, the son of former president Jacob Zuma. Edward Zuma is a business partner of Durban businessman, Thoshan Panday, who was the target of a Hawks investigation probing allegations that he ripped off the SAPS of R60m through the alleged fraudulent procurement of accommodation for police officers for the 2010 World Cup. The racketeering charges against Booysen were first signed off by former acting national NPA director, Nomgcobo Jiba. That decision was set aside in the Durban High Court by Judge Trevor Gorvin, who said there was no evidence before Jiba to authorise the charges. But authorisation was again given by sacked national NPA head,  Shaun Abrahams, in 2016 and Booysen was recharged.  Batohi said she had to satisfy herself that there was validity to the authorisation. She said a panel of four prosecutors, including two directors of public prosecutions and two prosecutors with particular expertise in racketeering prosecutions, had agreed the authorisations  by Jiba and Abrahams were invalid. She said the investigation dockets relating to the remaining charges had been referred back to the acting director of public prosecutions in KZN, Elaine Zungu, to reassess the evidence in each case, and decide whether to prosecute individuals who may be implicated in those matters.