Benny Bushwhacker, ‘Human Nature’ comes to Durban The inimitable Benny Bushwhacker comes to Durban’s Elizabeth Sneddon Theatre from 29 July to 11 August.   The Republic of South Africa proudly welcomes home, Benny Bushwhacker, world renowned conservationist, environmental campaigner and the only man to have thrice walked the length of Africa barefoot. The legend returns to share what it takes to survive the African bush and for the African bush to survive. The genial South African born, Bushwhacker (aka Ben Voss) recently made world headlines for banging heads with swashbuckling British survivalist, Bear Grylls. He will be touring South Africa’s theatres and festivals with a  hilarious yet sobering look at the collision between man and environment.  For somebody who has spent more time away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life than a hibernating Arctic wood frog, Bushwhacker brings untainted humanity and delicious humour to his performance that will have you laughing out loud and wondering why, when it comes to the bush, the most uncommon human trait, is common sense. Whether it be his opinion on changing the Springbok emblem, how to spot a bull in Kruger, or the relative chances of his estranged wife, Brenda, replacing the buffalo in the Big 5, Benny delivers time and again with his unique sense of humour and classic bush logic.    While touring SA, Bushwhacker will be raising awareness and moola for the Lebombo leopard – Human Conflict Survey. And while leopards are not known to change their spots, through this initiative, Benny will try to help humans to do so. Benny Bushwhacker’s stories and experiences have been translated from bush to page by his unofficial biographer, John van de Ruit, (of Spud fame,) and from page to stage by Janice Honeyman. Book your seats soon through Computicket for this wonderful look at life on the wild side, because, like the rhinos of Africa, you never know if you will get the chance to see it again. If you are interested in buying a house of the Durban season for a fundraiser, please contact Sharlene Versfeld on sharlene@versfeld.co.za. Performances on 30 and  31 July have a special offer of R80 per ticket and early-bird tickets are available.