The eThekwini Municipality has ordered residents of Saint John Avenue  in Glenwood to remove a boom gate and guard hut from the entrance to their road. This resident area road is U-shaped and has two gates, one remote controlled gate and a boom gate. People entering the area through the boom gate and have access to a remote to can exit the street through the remote gate. Pedestrians entering the street use the the boom gate side to enter and to exit and the municipality feels that this restricts traffic flow on that specific street. The municipality ordered the residents to remove that gates as no permission was given to them to construct 
both the remote gate or the boom gate. According to eThekwini Municpality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, the city does not permit such an obstruction. He said the city was not consulted on the matter and were unaware that there was a boom gate erected in the area. “We are unaware who erected the boom gate. The city has received complaints about this boom gate. We have in the past received complaints regarding other boom gates and have had them removed. The Road Traffic Act applies in this regard, as no person may place an obstruction within the road reserve.” said Mayisela The city said they are not in support of any installation that restricts traffic flow on a public road, any permanent structure on the roadside or on a verge. Mayisela said the city opposed any structure or installation that compromised a road user’s safety, including pedestrian safety. “If a formal complaint is lodged with the city’s eThekwini Transport Authority (ETA) in respect of any such installation, ETA will investigate and instruct that it be removed,” he said. According to residents, the boomgate is only closed between 10pm and 6am daily, which is when unsavoury activities such as prostitution and drug dealing occurs.  Bothe, the gates constructed on this street have been means of protection for the residents for almost five years. Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration chair, Heather Rorick confirmed that there are other streets in Glenwood that are fenced and gated, however, she said that she was unaware that it was against the municipal laws. She admitted that at times the gates make it difficult for emergency, municipal and police vehicles to enter the street. “I personally thought that if the gate is controlled 24/7 it should not be a problem, however it seems that once again some residents are getting the short end in the fight against crime,” said Rorick. No date or deadline has been given to the residents to remove the gates, however the instruction was given by the eThekwini Metro Police to have them removed.