Residents of Jadhu Place turned out in their numbers on Tuesday for the biggest clean-up operation yet for the highly populated and congested area located in Ward 25 of eThekwini. The operation was led by community involved members of the eThekwini Parks and Environmental Health Department, DSW Education and the Ward 25 Councillor Hasan Haniff. Haniff said the operation was set in motion with an aim not only to clean up Jadhu Place, but also to educate locals on ways of maintaining a safe and clean environment. This after residents together with the councillor realised how the waste littering the area had become a health hazard. “With the dirt not being picked up and piling up, many people are suffering from the smell and children were being exposed to many diseases. We have made it our priority to educate people about their health. The garbage on the road that has not been collected is a threat to the people. Arrangements with DSW have been made to collect the waste after the clean-up.” Areas targeted were between Arnold and Carintia Road. The initiative involved the participation of the residents from both informal and formal settlements to show unity among the people. Ecstatic area committee member, Jabu Mtshali, said he was pleased with the high turn-out for the operation, as it was a result of meetings held with the community to inform them of the clean-up. “People just needed the motivation to band together and clean up Jadhu Place. That is why you see them out with bin bags cleaning, because they are tired of living in filth. Children will now be able to play out in the streets without fear of rubbish being a hazard to them. So thank you to everyone who came to clean Jadhu Place, especially with it not being a weekend. You made us a priority,” said Mtshali. The turnout was also applauded by resident Savy Govender, who was pleased to see elderly people, like herself, from the area supporting this initiative by taking to the streets and cleaning up. “It is up to us as the community members to make our area clean. It doesn’t have to be an extreme clean-up as this one, but knowing how to use the bin can go a long way,” said Savy Govender.