The recent transfer of a cocaine snorting killer and two other prisoners from Westville Prison to C Max Prison in Kokstad,  has triggered some  questions being asked about the smuggling of drugs and other irregularities in the country’s prisons. The questions include: •  Did prison authorities implement  or ignore the extensive work and recommendations of the Jali Commission, which from 2002 to 2005  probed drug smuggling and other unlawful activities in prisons across South Africa? • If the recommendations were implemented, then how are drugs like cocaine, heroin and mandrax smuggled into the pockets of prisoners? • Another questions is which wardens are involved in corruption and why did they provide weapons to prisoners at Westville Prison to beat up other prisoners? In 2005,  retired Judge Thabani Jali who chaired the Jali Commission presented a 1 800 page report to the then Minister of Correctional Services, Ngconde Balfour. For reasons unknown, Balfour took almost a year before making the report public. Before returning to the commission’s findings, for those readers who do not know why two prisoners were transferred to C Max Prison, below is a brief resume. Prisoner Ruwain Meer and fellow prisoners, Sanele Nyalane and Langa Gumede (both serving 15-year sentences for armed robberies)  were moved to C Max Prison after a video of them snorting cocaine at Westville Prison went viral. Meer is serving two life sentences for killing Chatsworth businessman, Zainool Fakir, and his nephew, Akbar Sudhoona.During his trial in the Durban High Court with his co-accused and mastermind, Priyen Naidu, Meer confessed that he was a drug addict who indulged in cocaine, heroin and other drugs.  Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Ronald Lamola, announced last week that the senior manager of corporate affairs in the Durban Management Area, Dunraj Mohan had been suspended in the wake of the lawlessness at Westville Prison.  Lamola said at the end of the month, Westville Prison and other prisons will have body scanners to detect drug smugglers. The commission’s findings:It was noted that the KZN region was the most difficult area to be investigated. “Though the commission received, cooperation from senior management at Westville Prison, the commission’s investigators as well as witnesses were subjected to intimidation. To our disappointment, it became clear that there was widespread irregularities at Westville Prison,” said Judge Jali. The irregularities included:Drug trafficking:    Drug trafficking by wardens in collaboration with prisoners was rife and recommendations were made and carried out that several wardens be suspended and that criminal prosecutions be instituted against those implicated. Unlawful alteration of sentence:The commission was shocked to ascertain that an accused convicted of drug dealing had his four-year jail term changed to correctional supervision, not by the judiciary but by a prison official. The recommendation that the official be fired was carried out by the Department of Correctional Services. Prisoners leaving the premises illegally: This was being done with the full knowledge and assistance of wardens. One inmate enjoyed endless conjugal visits to his spouse, another stayed at various city hotels, while another prisoner  left the prison with a warden to retrieve an engine to be installed in the same warden’s vehicle at the prison. Medical aid fraud: This was found to be rampant with a large percentage of members being involved in the defrauding of the medical aid company, Medcor. Evidence also indicated members being involved in organised crime acting as agents to recruit other members to participate in the defrauding of Medcor.There was shocking evidence of widespread corruption amongst certain service providers. In one case in KwaZulu-Natal, a  doctor claimed of R30million  in one year from Medcor. Another doctor in Johannesburg was found to have claimed R10million. ExtortionThe extortion of money from prisoners or former prisoners by wardens was also found to be prevalent. Such extortion could be for the purposes of obtaining remissions of sentence, the conversion of sentences to periods of correctional supervision, or for the simple purpose of allowing an inmate privileges which he or she would not normally be entitled to. Warders were also extorting money from inmates or their families to ensure the safety of the inmate. Overcrowding:14 years have come and gone since the report was commissioned. The commission said then that overcrowding at prisons was a serious issue. To say that Westville Prison and other prisons are bursting at the seams is not an understatement.