The 7-year-old homeless Verulam child who was allegedly forcibly “sold” by her mother to men to satisfy her drug habit, has been taken to a place of safety by the Verulam Child Welfare Society. It has also emerged that the mother has disappeared. Police did not confirm if any arrests have been made as the investigation continues. This follows the breaking of the story in last week’s issue of The Phoenix Tabloid of the homeless mother who was forcing her child to sleep with perverted men for money. According to sources, on some occasions the child was put through unbelievable trauma by the perverts just for a bottle of beer, cigarettes or the use of a shower at the men’s homes. Senior social worker of Verulam Child Welfare Society, Susan Chain-Reddy said they decided to take the child away from the mother due the “horrific situation” that she was living under. 
“We have taken the child to a place of safety. We cannot disclose the place to protect the child. But, I can safely say that the child received a comfortable place and she will also go to counselling sessions,” said Chain-Reddy. She said that when they arrived at the supermarket where the mother and daughter were staying, they only found the child while the mother was nowhere to be found. “We took the child away after realising that maybe the mother had run away. We are currently investigating the matter using the child’s knowledge,” she said. When Chain-Reddy was asked if there were any charges opened against the men who sexually abused the young girl, she said the child was not in the state of revealing any information as she was still too traumatised to be questioned. The mother, who is apparently known by people in the Verulam CBD, was criticised by residents for subjecting the child to horrific sexual trysts, instead of providing her child with tender loving care. Resident, Roy Chetty as quoted in the last story, had enough and raised the alarm. The paper had heard that the mother allegedly charged R100 every time men violated her child. The issue received spotlight after concerned residents like Chetty and others told The Phoenix Tabloid that the impoverished mother and daughter have been living at the Verulam Morning Market for years and the sexual violations against the girl has been happening in the open fields or in abandoned houses. Verulam police communication officer, Captain Henry Kisten said in our law, men who sexually abuse children, can be charged for rape. “We are not aware that the child has been taken to a place of safety. We are going to follow up on the developments.”