The Chartered Institute of Government Finance, Audit and Risk Officers (CIGFARO) says that it welcomes the audit results released by the Auditor-General (AG), Kimi Makwetu. “CIGFARO is pleased to announce that 12 out of the 18 municipalities which maintained a clean audit status have staff members who are active members of CIGFARO,” said the insitute. “These members have consistently attended seminars and workshops to help improve their skills and expand their scope of knowledge. In most of these municipalities, it was noted that the municipal manager usually accompanies the chief finance officer to the practical CIGFARO events.  This proves that working together creates greater accountability and capacitates the country through building a better future for all.”
 
The KZN regional branch hosted the Finance Leadership Summit on the weekend of 5 and 6 July. On the Saturday the branch hosted an awards breakfast ceremony to honour and appreciate municipalities by recognising those who did well. The CIGFARO KZN regional branch chairperson, Emmanuel Ngcobo, said: “As we reflect on the state of our local government at the current moment, we are all challenged to question ourselves what has truly gone wrong. Such discovery will lead us to change the way we think and do things for the change we want to see and ensure improvement in the delivery of services for our country’s citizens.”    The Auditor General Award for a Clean Audit, a financially unqualified audit with no findings, for four consecutive years results went to Okhahlamba Local Municipality. iLembe District Municipality received the Best Performing District Municipality in terms of leadership, financial and performance management, governance and compliance. Mtubatuba Local Municipality went home with the Most improved Local Municipality in terms of leadership, financial and performance management and governance. The award for Most Consistent Local Municipality in terms of accountability (Quality of annual financial statements, compliance, nil irregular expenditure and financial health) went to uMzumbe Local Municipality. Additional Special COGTA Awards for Best Performing Municipalities in terms of Back2Basic project went to Nongoma Local Municipality and iNkosi Langalibalele Local Municipality and finally, a section  46 Performance Award went to uBuhlebezwe.   Ngcobo said that these awards served to acknowledge those who are doing their level best in their respective municipalities in the midst of challenges, but most importantly inspire other municipalities to emulate and learn from those who are able to rise above all.