The ‘Spirit of Comrades Awards’ is an annual event, whereby a maximum of three individuals are rewarded for embodying the true ‘Spirit of the Comrades Marathon’ and being an inspiration to humanity. “In the spirit of celebrating the do-gooders amongst us, the Comrades Marathon Association (CMA) is calling on runners, supporters and the greater public to submit their nominations for the annual Spirit of Comrades Awards gala to be held in Durban in October,” said CMA Chairperson, Cheryl Winn Winn said, 64 outstanding recipients have been honoured with the prestigious Spirit of Comrades Award as well as a 24-carat gold medallion over the past 24 years. “The prized accolade is bestowed on three deserving individuals every year in recognition of those who are esteemed to embody the Spirit of Comrades,” she added.   The criteria is fairly wide, but as a guideline the following factors may be considered: • The candidate will have run the Comrades Marathon, most probably on numerous occasions. • The candidate may in some way be associated as an integral player in the history of the Comrades Marathon.     • Most importantly, the candidate may have exhibited a particular act of selflessness, sacrifice, courage or perseverance in a particular race or over a period of years. • You will be able to nominate your candidate for the Spirit of Comrades Awards by completing this nomination form. “Awards will be awarded at the discretion of the board and should you wish to nominate an individual for this award,  complete the nomination form and send it to the CMA before 31 July 2019.” said Winn. When nominating you are required to motivate in no more than 120 words why you believe the person nominated should be awarded the Spirit of Comrades Award. The motivation should be attached to the nomination form. To download the form visit www.comrades.com.  Forms should be returned by  31 July 2019 to the CMA by  emailing roxanne@comrades.com or faxing to 033 897 8660 or by posting to P.0. Box 100621 Scottsville 3209, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa