Acting Mayor Fawzia Peer, and the City’s Executive Committee welcomed the new members of the City Planning Commission on Tuesday morning, affirming the full support of the council. As the first city to establish the City Planning Commission in 2014, the Commission aims to guide the long term growth and development of our region in a strategic direction that will ensure that eThekwini becomes a world class city that meets the needs of its citizens and competes globally. This second term of commissioners are drawn from an array of backgrounds and consists of experienced, independent representatives from academia, civil society, the private sector, town planners, engineers and other professionals, who are each distinguished in their fields of expertise and would be able to guide the developmental trajectory of the city to new and greater heights. The new commissioners include Proffesor Abiodun Matthews Dayomi,  Carlos Esteves,  Claudelle Dawn Crick Dunn,  Dimakatso Diseko, Dr Dhevraj  Rajah, Proffesor Urmilla Bob,  Glen Robbins, Dr Gonaseelan Govender, Dr Hope Magidimisha,  Litha Dalindyebo,  Methembe Mdlalose,  Menzi Dlamini,  Osborne Siphamandla Gwamanda, Proffesor Purshottama Sivanarain Reddy,  Pfano Mashau,  Poppy Dlamini,  Trivi Arjunan,  Yasmin Rajah and  Beauty Zibula. Peer said, “Planning and working with all stakeholders in our society to implement eThekwini’s developmental agenda is a case in point that we are indeed an inclusive City committed to our Constitutional obligation of building a city together with our communities. Bringing an external, independent body like this, is also a reflection of our commitment to a transparent government.” The overarching strategic objective of the City Planning Commission is to act as an independent and expert advisory think-tank to the leadership and administration of eThekwini Municipality aimed at propelling long-term, holistic and catalytic socio-economic development of Durban and its people.  Long-term planning must ensure that high economic growth rates are achieved, linked with the creation of decent, sustainable jobs; economic prosperity and an absolute reduction of poverty and inequities based on spatial, gender, income and racial differentiations. The 2014 to 2018 Commission completed a Story Line Diagnostic, which has paved the way for the compilation of a City Development Strategy. The new City Planning Commission is expected to start the 3-year term of office from July 2019 to 10 June 2021. The chief and urgent task of this Commission is to lead with the preparation of an inclusive and comprehensive Implementation Strategy for the City Development Strategy and the Monitoring of the strategy thereafter. Peer said, “A city as big as ours faces numerous challenges, many of which are global challenges. Rapid urbanisation, poverty, unemployment, the provision of basic services are serious challenges facing all developing economies. However, in eThekwini we would like to think that as a City we are being proactive in addressing these issues and in time to come, our City will be Africa’s most caring and livable City. The expertise and professionalism of the commissioners selected will benefit the City in multiple ways. Their collaboration and guidance that will leave a lasting legacy and take the City forward in achieving our vision. The Commission will also assist in fine-tuning our long term development framework and put eThekwini on a sound footing to become a smart city for the future.” The Acting Mayor applauded the groundwork that the previous City Planning Commission laid. “The City leadership is committed to walk this journey with you and I assure you of the leadership support during your term in office,” she said.