Police are on a mission to hunt and arrest the suspects responsible for killing two Metro Police officers who were on councillor protection duties in Bhambayi, Phoenix, on Monday night. The deceased Metro Police officers identified as Inspector F Dladla (61) and Cst Sonto Mhlanga (40) were seated in their marked vehicle when the suspects struck, fatally shooting them and stealing their firearms from their holsters. The officers were doing councillor protection duties at Councillor Sthe Zulu’s residence in Ward 52, Bhambayi, Phoenix, when they were approached by two men. Speaking to The Glenwood Weekly Gazette, Metro Police spokesman, Sen Supt Parboo Sewpersad, said, “At 9:15pm, a call out 
was received by Metro relating to the two members on councillor protection duties at a home in Bhambayi, between Fernham and Stoneham. The Metro Police officers were shot in their vehicle. Upon investigation, it was discovered that their firearms were removed from their holsters. “The Metro Police family is still reeling from the shock of our colleagues’ murders. Metro Police will work closely with the Provincial Task Team who are investigating the killings. We strive to hunt and arrest the suspects behind these cold-blooded killings and recover the stolen firearms from the suspects. The motive behind the murders are still being investigated but for now it appears as theft of firearms.”
Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said arrangements are underway for the funerals of the slain officers. Provincial police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, said, “Two counts of murder and armed robbery was opened at Phoenix police station after two Metro Police officers were shot and killed in their vehicle while on duty at Bhambayi area on Monday night. Their firearms were taken during the attack. The suspects fled the scene in their getaway vehicle.” Meanwhile, the eThekwini Municipality is calling for the members of the public with information that may help to speedily arrest perpetrators responsible for the killing of  the two Metro Police officers in uniform to urgently hand it over to the police. The city’s Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer has since called on law enforcement agencies to double their efforts and expeditiously apprehend the culprits. “We are calling upon the police to leave no stone unturned and nab these murderers. We want them to face the full might of the law and pay for their heinous crime. “Killing a law enforcer to me is tantamount to treason and those responsible for undermining the state, must be punished severely. Without any fear of contradiction, their demise is going to leave a big void to law enforcement efforts in the city and it will definitely be an uphill battle to fill. We would like to send our heartfelt condolences to their families and members of our Metro Police in general because they were working closely with them,” said Peer.