Concerned residents using the Berea Park toilets claim the facilities are not being maintained which can cause a problem for users. The toilet facility is for the use of the public going to the nearby public gym and children play area, however is not user friendly, according to residents. A resident who did not want to be named said for sometime now a notice had been placed outside the toilets saying that a plumber is on the way to fix the toilets and since, nothing had been done. “The facility is on the doorstep of a restaurant and a public gym which makes it essential for it to be maintained,” said the resident. When The Glenwood Weekly Gazette visited the site it was clear that some work had been done however, it had been vandalised. The walls and windows of the ablution building are damaged and there is rubbish left outside the facility. The water pipes are also broken, floor tiles are cracked and there are no doors. Ward Councillor Chris Pappas said the toilet in Berea Park was supposed to be maintained by the person who holds the lease to the adjacent market. 
“Because the market no longer has a lease holder, there is no one to maintain it. It should therefore be locked from public use but it is constantly vandalised,” said Pappas. He said that he tried for more than a year to ask the parks district manager to put out an expression of interest for the market space and this would have resolved the toilet issue as well. “He has not done this despite many attempts and meetings. We have recently redone the roof, gutter and ceilings of the change room at the other end of the park but there are no more funds to continue with other maintenance issues. Funding is a huge issue in the parks department as this department also funds things like statues and parties or events,” Pappas said. Another issue according to the councillor and residents are vagrants behind the old toilet. “I have done a site inspection with the law enforcement officials from parks who said they would deal with the issue but like many things in the city, what is said and what is done are completely different. The clearing of the railway lines in the CBD has caused an influx of homeless citizens as the city just shifts their plight from one area to another with no permanent solution,” Pappas added. A comment from eThekwini Municipality was still forthcoming at the time of going to print.