A well-known Durban videographer and dad of two, Daryl Kotze is lucky to be alive after he was shot four times on the N3 whilst returning home from the airport on Thursday night.In a stable but serious condition, Kotze’s close brush with death has raised questions surrounding the shooting with speculation seesawing between an apparent ‘hit’ or a case of mistaken identity as the videographer’s expensive camera equipment remained untouched but his cellphone is alleged to be missing. Linked to some of South Africa’s top hip hop artists for whom he has made music videos, Kotze’s survival after the brazen shooting, is being hailed a miracle in itself upon close view of his bullet-riddled Toyota Fortuner. Police spokesperson, Lt/Col Thulani Zwane, said, “A case of attempted murder is under investigation at Sydenham police after a man was allegedly shot on 23 May 2019 at 10pm. It is alleged that the driver was shot by an unknown suspect on the N3 near Brickfield off-ramp. He was taken to hospital for further attention.”On Monday, Kotze took to Facebook and shared a post on his personal page, where he wrote, “Thank you! No words to describe the support and love my family and I have received since the attack. “You never think something like this happen to you but just a reminder to never say Never! Overwhelmed by everyone. You are amazing. You give me strength!” (sic) Members of eThekwini Secure were quickly on scene when reports of the possible drive-by shooting was called in on the Zello channel. PRO for eThekwini Secure, Zain Soosiwala, said, “Through our extensive network, we swiftly dispatched emergency services with eThekwini Secure patrollers in hurrying to the scene. “Patrollers, who were first at the scene, immediately cordoned off the area and assisted with traffic control, until SAPS and Metro arrived. A survey of the scene revealed that possibly a high calibre weapon was used in the shooting as evident on the bullet-ridden Toyota Fortuner. The victim was left in a critical condition. The circumstances of the shooting remain unknown.As an organisation that involves itself in the fight against crime, it is unfortunate that we have to regularly witness such incidents that continue so indiscriminately by criminals. This sick and obscure state of crime must be condemned with the contempt that it deserves. To the family of the victim, we pray for their strength during this difficult time. We encourage any witness to please contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Information can be passed on anonymously,” said Soosiwala.  