The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development has urged dog owners in Durban North and other suburbs, north of the city to have their pets vaccinated for rabies. Free vaccinations will take place from 3 to 15 June. On Monday, 3 June from 9am to 1pm: jabs will be given at the playlot next to the fire station at uMhlanga Rocks Drive and at the corner of St Andrews Drive and Graham Place in Northway. On 4 June from 9am to 1: 30pm dog owners can gather at the Virginia parking lot in Danville Park, Glenashley playlot in Adelaide Drive and Adelaide Place and in Glenhills, park corner of Malacca and Rinaldo Road. The department’s staff on 5 June from 9am to 1:30pm will be at Seaton Park in Lothian Road off North Coast Road, the playlot at the  corner of St Kilda and High Ridge Road and Japanese Garden in Prospect Hall Road. On 6 June from 9am to 1pm, vaccinations will be done at the swimming pool in Umsimbithi Place in Silveroak Avenue, Somerset Park, the  post box clusters at Somert Drive and Keynsham Road in Sunningdale and at the park and postbox clusters  in Village and Spurwing Drive. On 7 June from 9am to 1pm, it will be the turn of dog owners in Sea Cow Lake to have their dogs vaccinated at the sportsfield in Vijay Terrace. On 10 June from 9am to 1pm, owners and their dogs can gather at the Greenwood Park playlot in Park Station Road, opposite a superette at the corner of Havelock and Park Station Road, the Rosepark  playlot in Rosary Road, the sportsfield in Umhlangane Road, Avoca and the park in Avoca Road, a the swimming pool in Firwood Road, Redhill. On 14 June from 9am to 12pm it will be turn of dog owners in La Lucia to have their dogs vaccinated. The venues are the park behind the La Lucia Library and the La Lucia Mall in Oakleight Drive. Vaccinations will also take place in uMhlanga at Durban View Park at the corner of Marine Drive and Durban View Road, the playlot in Smithfield Road in Effingham and at the playlot at the corner of Havelock Road and Park Station Road in Greenwood Park.