PinkDrive will be present in three major cities, Durban, Johannesburg and Cape Town on Friday, 9 August (National Women’s Day), with the support of Totalsports Women’s Race. PinkDrive is non-profit company (NPC) that is committed to improving breast cancer awareness, education, and providing and offering free services to the medically uninsured across South Africa, it will be present at the Women’s Race offering free clinical breast examinations and educating on the importance of self- breast examinations. For the first time since the event’s inception in 2001, South Africa’s largest Women’s Day celebration will be hosted on one day across three major cities. “We love this race in Durban,” said Janice Benecke, PinkDrive KZN administrator. “Even the men get dressed up (in pink) and join in on the fun. Being the official charity of this event means the world to us. Each year the runners always give good feedback on the actual race. They love it and let us know that they cannot wait for the next year.  It’s always nice to know that all the hard work that goes into arranging this event is appreciated.  It really is special seeing a “sea of pink” take to the streets of our lovely city.  PinkDrive will have a Shop4Cancer at registration and on event day, so runners and walkers can #PimpThemselvesPink. “We will also be doing clinical breast examinations on race day,” she added. According to Febe Meyer, PinkDrive marketing manager, the Women’s Race is a highlight on PinkDrive’s yearly events calendar. “The significance of hosting this event on Women’s Day adds so much more meaning to this event,”said Meyer. “This is a day where women (and men) and families can unite and commemorate not only National Women’s Day, but also think of those on their journey with breast cancer. The funds received enable us to keep our existing fleet on the road, while delivering our free cancer screening services to the medically uninsured people of South Africa. We are very excited that Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town will take to the streets on the same day to participate in this phenomenal event,” added Meyer. “The  Women’s Race is extremely well organised,” said Tenielle October, PinkDrive Cape Town Administrator.   “It’s the perfect opportunity for women to unite, celebrate the beauty of being a woman and celebrate life.  As a beneficiary we are empowered to reach more women, raise awareness and offer our free cancer screening services to women who are not medically insured.  We are looking forward to the excitement, the atmosphere and the live entertainment.  But more so we are looking forward to meeting new people and hearing their stories,” she added, A fun-filled Women’s Day celebration that encourages a healthy lifestyle, the Women’s Race invites all women (grandmothers, aunts, sisters, mothers and daughters) to run united in support of PinkDrive as they strive to raise awareness around breast cancer.