The Allied Movement for Change called for mayor Zandile Gumede to resign with immediate effect or for the ANC to immediately recall her, in the interest of the people of the eThekwini Municipality. Gumede, councillor Mondli Mthembu and businessman Craig Ponnan were granted R50 000 bail each following their brief appearance in the Durban Specialised Commercial Crime Court on 21 May. SAPS Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the trio handed themselves over to the Hawks’ National Clean Audit Task Team (NCATT) early and they were subsequently charged with fraud, corruption, contravention of the POCA Act as well as contravening of the Municipal Management Act of 2003. “Two weeks ago the NCATT arrested nine suspects on allegations of fraud and corruption in relation to a 2016 R208 million Durban Solid Waste tender where service providers were allegedly paid huge amounts of monies even though they did not render any service.
“The nine suspects, EThekwini Municipality Deputy Head of Strategy and New Development Robert Abbu (62), Supply Chain Manager Sandile Ngcobo (41), Hlenga Sibisi (43), Mzwandile Dludla (24), Sinthamone Ponnan (55), Sithulele Mkhize (38), Bongani Dlomo (53), and Prabagaram Pariah (61) were released on R50 000 as well bail by the same court
Gumede, Mthembu and Ponnan will join the nine suspects when they appear again on08 August.  Investigations are still ongoing,” said Mulaudzi. Allied Movement for Change leader Roy Bhoola called for Gumede’s resignation. “It is inappropriate that a mayor of a major metro is embroiled in allegations of corruption, and is able to retain her position. “The recent elections, was a clear barometer to every individual and party, that corruption will not be tolerated by the citizens of this country. We therefore call on the good conscience of Mayor Gumede to step aside in the interest of the citizens of EThekwini Municipality. “The condition of Gumede’s bail is that she is not allowed to have any communication with operations or staff of the eThekwini Metro administration, among others. This is a clear indication, that the mayor needs to step aside, so that someone else is able to manage the city as her bail conditions clearly inhibits her from doing so,” said Bhoola.