Made for More’s very own Sabelo Ngema of Glenwood took third place in the visually impaired division of the SA Adaptive Surfing Championships. Six champions were crowned at the championship in various classifications from prone assist (AS5) prone (AS4) sit (AS3) kneel (AS2), stand (AS1) and visually impaired (ASVI) divisions at the South African Adaptive Surfing Championship held at New Pier in Durban over the weekend. Organiser Julia van Zyl, the founder of the Made for More non-profit organisation, said they had 36 entries who had travelled to Durban from around South Africa. “Darian Haynes came all the way from Hawaii to be with us,” said Van Zyl. Haynes (19) was named winner of the Women’s AS2 division, defeating Cape Town’s Grace Anderson, who won a silver medal at the World Champs in San Diego last year. Haynes has Erb’s Palsy after suffering nerve damage to her left shoulder at birth when she was pulled by her arm too forcefully out of the womb. The championship came after a difficult time for Durban in recent weeks, with flooding causing widespread damage and 51 deaths three weeks ago, followed by a sewage pump failure 10 days ago that led to millions of litres of sewage gushing into the Port of Durban. Fortunately for the adaptive surfing championship, improving e-coli test results at New Pier in the days leading to the event resulted in a green light for the contest, unlike the weekend before, when the Zigzag Surf Pro had to be called off. “It’s an incredible privilege for us to run this event. So much goes into preparing for an adaptive surfing event of this magnitude, from beach and vehicle permits, to contest infrastructure, coordinating volunteers and personnel, 
and then there are the logistics around acquiring the specialised equipment,” Van Zyl said. The organiser said “We need to organise and set up access mats for accessibility for wheelchair users on the soft sand as well as water chairs to assist them in and out of the water.  We also require specific surfboards that are generally thicker and wider for surfers who lie prone and are assisted onto waves.” A team of 20 volunteers had their hands full in the shore-break at New Pier assisting the prone surfers. “The atmosphere and support on the beach was the best, biggest and warmest we’ve ever had. We are so proud and in awe of the bravery, courage, commitment and talent of all the surfers and competitors in both the contest and the expression session, ” Van Zyl added. “The expression session was held for the first time and beginner surfers not ready for competition,” Van Zyl explained. “When the expression session began, the crowd erupted and literally ran down to the water’s edge in celebration and support of these brave young men and women. The inexpressible and glorious joy experienced in the expression session was not of this world and something that will sit and resonate in people’s hearts for a very long time,” Van Zyl concluded. 