In a province dogged by service delivery protests and land grabs, it seemed as no surprise that the African National Congress retained power despite the ruling party being met with heavy criticism ahead of the 8 May polls. With an increase of 47 percent of registered voters since the first democratic elections, the tolls told a different story. The big surprise might have been the positioning of the Inkatha Freedom Party as the official opposition in KwaZulu-Natal, trailed by the Democratic Alliance. However, many political analysts said that the real winner in the elections was in fact the Economic Freedom Fighters who increased their votes, as the party had anticipated. For the Provincial Legislature in KZN, the ANC took 54.2 percent of the vote, followed by the IFP with 16.3, the DA with 13.9 and the EFF with 1.6%. The Minority Front, too, might have been a little disappointed with only a 0.52 percent result, while the Al Jama’ah surprised with 0.28 of the vote in the province. The AJ made another suprise with gaining one seat in the National Assembly. Nationally, the DA remains the official opposition with 20.77 percent chunk of the votes, followed by the EFF with 10.79. The ANC did however achieve 57.5, perhaps a little lower than the party’s expectation. Both the ANC and DA figures are down from the 2014 results from 62.15 and 22.23 percent respectively. While the ANC’s Cyril Ramaphosa retains his position as president, a smaller Cabinet is expected with major reshuffling. And, IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi will be the oldest parliamentarian. The IEC has also come under fire for “loopholes” in the system where many voters cast their vote more than once while the results have been met with mixed feelings from the public. Johnson Chetty, DA councillor in Tongaat, said that he was deeply distressed by the performance of the IEC. “A national election is crucial for the future of the country. The IEC had five years to plan and execute this election but failed dismally. The loopholes in the system allowed people to vote multiple times. The presiding officers refused people to vote at their stations, rather telling them to vote where they are registered. This is a breach of national elections as registered voters should vote anywhere.” He claimed that IEC officials failed to report a power failure at the Temple Valley Secondary School, believing it to be load shedding. “People were forced to walk in dark corridors as no provision was made for lighting. The indelible ink saga left a lot to be desired. I am convinced that this was tardiness or even more worrying is that it was politically motivated. I am not convinced that the election was free and fair. South Africans deserve better,” said Chetty. Democratic Liberal Congress (DLC) leader Patrick Pillay, who contested the elections at both levels said: “The elections were very gruelling and challenging. Despite the many challenges faced by the DLC in the run up to the elections, in terms of resources, the lack of national media exposure and the negative campaigning of the DA, telling people not to vote for smaller parties, we are pleased with the loyal supporters whom have come out in their numbers and voted for the DLC. As a party, we always focused on bread and butter issues that affected our communities hence the reason for contesting these elections. He said that the elections were marred by voters being turned away from polling station as some ran out of ballot papers, while others were told to vote where they were registered at. He said that his party intervened and addressed the concerns. “The DLC’s success is ultimately dependent on the electorate and as long as there is a need and demand from the electorate, we will always continue to champion their cause,” said Pillay. Another DA councillor, Dolly Munien, said: “With many months of planning and strategising, we have reached a turning point in our country’s great democracy. Even with all the allegations of the ruling party’s tactics to sabotage the electoral process, the entire day went without much of a hiccup. “Albeit, turnout was not as expected, with a large percentage of the residents choosing to abstain for reasons only they know, however, those who did cast their vote made history. It was long believed that the African National Congress will stand without opposition, however today remains a testament to the people of this great nation of ours, as we have made our voices heard,” said Munien.