Following the devastating floods last week that claimed 70 lives and left thousands of people displaced across Durban, residents of the Quarry Road West informal settlement decided to take their dissatisfaction to the streets and blocked off main roads with burning debris causing widespread mayhem. Incensed protesters blocked off Mountbatten Drive, Quarry Road and the M19, leaving scores of commuters and motorists stuck in heavy traffic congestion.The displaced residents are demanding houses after they were relocated to a tent alongside Palmiet River since last week. Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Pravin Gounder said what infuriated the dwellers was that after the floods the municipality took about three days to send relief to the victims. “This is understandable and protesting for your rights  is legal in South Africa, however, endangering and jeopardising the lives of others is not fair. Formal residents were kept captive inside their homes, without being able to go to work as the roads were closed,” said Gounder. He said the informal settlers were visited by members of the community who responded swiftly after hearing that people had been affected by the heavy rains. “Members of the formal community gathered together and donated food to the affected families. In all three informal settlements, Quarry, Pridley and Shanon settlements. A lot of  people including 12 shacks were affected and three lives were lost. The same people who they were blocking were the ones that helped them,” said Gounder. He said on Saturday, the M19 was blocked, however Metro Police responded very quickly to calm the situation. Metro officer together with the Deputy Mayor of eThekwini Fawzia Peer and Ward Councillor Xolani Nala came to calm the situation. Gounder said the municipality made arrangements to place the affected dwellers, however, the formal residents are not happy on how it is handling the whole situation. “The municipality should curb the spread of informal settlements and provide proper housing for the people instead of taking them from one plot of land to another. this will not help the situation and these informal settlers are being brought closer and closer to the formal areas,” he added. Reservoir Hills ward councillor Xolani Nala said he was addressing the disgruntled shack dwellers. He said again on monday morning there was another protest and the dwellers were demeaning that the municipality and the councillor gives them a time frame of when they will be given proper housing and when these affected will be moved from the tent which they are currently living in as relief accommodation. “No date or time frame was given to the people, however they were told that the process could take sometime and meetings still needed to be held between the municipality,relevant stakeholders and government departments which include the housing and human settlements to come up with solutions to the matter at hand. The people were told to remain calm till then,” said Nala. Speaking at the meeting on Friday,  Mayor Zandile Gumede said the floods have inflicted untold damage on public and private infrastructure. “The eThekwini Municipality has provided temporary shelters to house displaced families in 11 community halls and others in tents,  while the storm has left a trail of destruction we are working around the clock to alleviate the impact of this disaster on our communities and to bring the lives of those affected back to normality as mop-up operations continue,” Mayor Gumede said. Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, confirmed that protesters blocked the road with burning rubble and said the protest action affected traffic. “A total of nine suspects were arrested for public violence and damage to the infrastructure,” said Cpt Gwala.