The city commends the law enforcement agencies for heeding its calls to move with speed and nab suspects barely three days after the murder of two of its Metro Police officers. The integrated operation resulted in three suspects being arrested in the early hours of Thursday morning in KwaMashu. One suspect sustained gunshot injuries after exchanging gunfire with the police. He is under heavy police guard in one of the hospitals in the city. Inspector Zephania Dladla (61) and Cst Nomasonto Mhlanga (40), were guarding the residence of eThekwini Councillor Boxer Zulu in Bhambayi near Phoenix when they came under attack. eThekwini’s Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, calls on the police to gather all the evidence that would help to secure conviction,” said eThekwini Municipality, Communications Unit spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, said, “Acting on information which was gathered at the crime scene where the two Metro Police officers were shot, members of SAPS Phoenix worked in the early hours of Thursday morning in a joint operation tracing suspects. The joint unit comprised of Warrant Officer PJ Moodley, Sgt Ndonyela, Hawks and members of Metro Police. One suspect was arrested in Mount Moriah and with his assistance, the members were able to trace the other suspects in Inanda and KwaMashu.”
“The king pin, an African male, who is 18-years-old, shot at the police and police returned fire. The suspect was injured in the right leg. Members recovered three firearms,” said Cpt Naidoo. The police recovered a firearm belonging to one of the deceased Metro Police officers.  Phoenix  CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, said, “High praise goes to the police officers who worked so diligently to arrest those perpetrators responsible for the cold-blooded murder of the two Metro Police officers. Thankfully the firearms were also recovered. These ruthless suspects must face the full extent of the law for their despicable actions.” “We are very proud of the good work that police have done. I wish this case is dealt with expeditiously and police remove murderers from our communities and put them where they belong. I have said it before that killing a police officer is tantamount to high treason. People who are doing that do not belong to our society but in prison. I hope our courts will send a clear message to the would-be police killers that taking a life of a police officer and other citizens in general, will not be tolerated in this country,” said Cllr Peer.