A 20-year-old man is recovering from a gunshot wound to his knee after he was robbed by two suspects on Wonder Park Road in Shastri Park, on Friday. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, said, “The victim was walking when he was approached by two men known to him. One suspect produced a firearm and both suspects robbed the victim of cash, a Huawei P9 cellphone and his Uzzi shoes. The suspect then shot the victim on his knee and they fled on foot. The victim was transported to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital by GBH Security ambulance.” Shocked by the violence exhibited against her son, the victim’s mother took to social media and posted a picture of her son and details of the incident on the KZN VIP Phoenix Crime Watch Facebook page where she requested assistance in pursuing  the case. According to the victim’s mum, her son had proceeded to Wonder Park and she shared on Facebook, “Good afternoon guys my son on Friday 17/05/2019. He went to his friend in Wonder Park because his friend was owing him else that. An man shot him in his knee. My son is in Ghandi Hospital suffering. What can I do in this stage because all his belongings were taken by the guy that was owing him. He was robbered and shot. A case of armed robbery is under investigation.” Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, said, “This is yet another episode of shocking violence unfolding in our midst. A young man shot and then robbed with the perpetrators taking even his shoes. Whatever the circumstances surrounding this shooting, police will investigate closely and arrest those implicated in this alarming crime.” Local crime-fighter and director of KZN VIP Security, Glen Naidoo, said the matter needs to be thoroughly investigated and all facts presented. “In essence, crime has spiked in Phoenix. This brazen shooting and robbery is just another indication that criminals are running rampant in the area and are prone to acting out violently.  “Criminals have access to unlicensed firearms and are using them at free will for their unlawful gain. Community members need to be vigilant and cognizant of who they deal with and befriend. Sometimes, interacting with certain people can endanger your life,” added Naidoo.