The Association for the Aged (Tafta) is calling on collaborative partners in the field of elder care in the Durban community to join them as they plan a multi-stakeholder approach to educate residents and community elders on the issues of elder abuse. Tafta CEO Fermada Shamam said, “The call to action for community bodies, and other relevant stakeholders to come together to tackle elder care issues within the Durban community comes after the death of three Durban elders whose deaths is attributed to a system that was not fully equipped to manage the care needs of the ageing population.” Shamam said, “Last month, there were not one, but two tragic incidences where elders have been left with a sense of hopelessness and isolation, leading to disturbing fatalities. As I read reports on these deaths, they invoked in me a sense of urgency to act with the ultimate goal of ensuring that we can collectively find some solutions to support those elders in desperate need within our communities.” “I am looking for like-minded people who believe that a solution can be found to the challenge of supporting our elders who have care needs. Alone, I may not be able to do much but I know that there are people who are deeply affected by these incidents and I hope that I can count on you to partake in this initiative. I am committing my time, my knowledge and whatever resources I have to contribute towards an elder never feeling that they have no option but to end their lives. I hope that I can count on you as well,” Shamam added. Following an underwhelming response from the Durban community, Tafta has decided to forge ahead with a series of talks and dialogues within various Durban communities to educate residents and elders on the prevention of elder abuse and the care of vulnerable elders. The Association is thus calling on interested community bodies looking to partner with them to get the message out  to their communities to host the dialogue sessions with relevant audiences; elders and their caretakers. “In 2019, we are rolling out these dialogue sessions in Chatsworth, KwaMashu and other areas in which we hope to unearth further findings. Following these sessions, we’ll hopefully have a clearer understanding of the issues we need to tackle and establish a task team to take them forward towards resolution, or at least greater levels of support for those in need,” Shamam added. This year once again, the sessions will eventually culminate in an awareness walk on 14 June 2019 to commemorate World Elder Abuse Day which is on 15 June 2019. For the first time, the walk this year will take place in the Wentworth community, in the vicinity of Tafta’s John Dunn House. Interested parties wishing to walk in solidarity with Tafta can contact Abel Naicker on 031 208 4175 or email abel @tafta.org.za