Two SAPS Durban Cluster members, Captain Cynthia Ncanana, the Nicol Square sector commander, and Detective Warrant Officer Sivan Naidoo were applauded  for their sterling performance in getting a conviction in one of their cases recently. The duo were awarded with certificates and vouchers by the cluster commander, Brigadier Ndlovu and fellow senior SAPS members on Tuesday morning at the Detectives headquarters in Durban, for the conviction of Siyabonga Joyiya. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Joyiya was arrested on 4 August in the Durban CBD, after he was found in possession of a human head. On 9 October, Joyiya, one of the two accused in the case, was sentenced to life in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. Brigadier Doctor Ndlovu said both these members received information and acted on it immediately. “The members successfully arrested the first accused who then after investigation, led them to the second accused. They then confessed to the police that an Inyanga had instructed them to bring a human head and would be rewarded. “They said the instruction was to cut the head off while the victim was still breathing for the muthi to be stronger. The first accused was found by Ncanana walking with the head in a plastic bag, which I believe was very traumatising. She did her job and never went to counselling after what she saw. This shows true dedication in her job,” Ndlovu said. Brigadier Ndlovu and other senior officials recommended that both Ncanana and Nadioo receive a special recognition for this case nationally as this was not an easy task to complete. Naidoo said when he was working on the investigation, he was on the scene all day making sure that all the needed evidence is collected, putting aside family commitments. He said he is glad that all the hard work they put into it has been acknowledged. “Sometimes as police, we have to go beyond the call of duty. Our role in such cases is to give the victims’ families closure, by ensuring that justice is served. We forget our own families, even our wife’s birthdays,” he said. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Captain Ncanana said as much as people may feel that police need counselling, when dealing with this case she was more than traumatised, however, with God’s grace, she didn’t have to go for counselling. “When I saw that head, I was beyond myself. Afterwards, I had to move on,” she said. Both Ncanana and Naidoo said they were grateful for the recognition and thank the Durban Cluster communications department for going the extra mile. They said the R500 voucher they received together with the certificates will be put into good use, especially Naidoo who has to make up for missing his wife’s birthday. Ethekwini SAPS spokesperson, Captain Muzi Maphumulo said, “Most of the time police get criticised and with this acknowledgment we are so proud of the two members, we hope their recognition will set an example to other members and motivate them to do better than what they already are.”