Krish Nair, the acting Chatsworth SAPS station commander, has applauded the swift action taken by police officers in arresting a suspect accused of filing a false case of carjacking. The carjacking docket was opened for investigation at the Chatsworth police station. Following days of investigation, Detective Constable Khumuble arrested the 36-year-old suspect, for defeating the ends of justice. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Chatsworth police spokesperson, Captain Cheryl Pillay, confirmed that a case of carjacking was reported on Sunday, 13 October. The suspect had claimed that he was a victim of a carjacking in the Welbedacht East area. 
“Police immediately activated a team where the vehicle was recovered in Welbedacht. Police further established that the complainant’s vehicle, a Jaguar, was allegedly involved in an accident thereafter reported to police falsely,” Pillay said. The accused appeared before the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on 15 October, where he was released on bail of R1 500. The accused will next appear in court on 20 November.
 
Pillay said: “SAPS Chatsworth is committed towards ensuring that all cases are given priority. Colonel Krish Nair advises the public not to make false statements in an affidavit to the police as it will be thoroughly investigated and is punishable by law. It is also criminal to report false cases for insurance claims. Colonel Nair commends the investigators for the thorough investigation conducted and the subsequent arrest of these perpetrators of such crimes.”
 



     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

The police also advised the public of the following: Section 9 of the Justice of the Peace and Commissioners of Oaths Act 16 of 1963, provides that any person who in an affidavit, affirmation of solemn or attested declaration made before a person competent to administer an oath or affirmation or take declaration in question, has made a false statement knowing it to be false, commits an offence according to the same section, he/she is liable to the penalties prescribed by law for the offence of perjury.