Yet another tow truck feud killing has rocked Phoenix after 39-year-old dad and tow truck owner, Thavendhren ‘Joe’ Naicker, who operated as Roadstar Towing, was gunned down on Sunford Drive, two doors away from his home, on Sunday night. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo, said that family members allege that the victim left his sister’s house in Shastri Park about 10:45pm and headed for home. “Thereafter, there were several calls received about a shooting and police were dispatched to the scene.The deceased was found slumped in his vehicle, a white Nissan tow truck, two doors away from his home. The vehicle crashed into the gate and wall of a Sunford Drive residence. Several 9mm and rifle rounds were found on the road and both sides of the vehicle,” said Cpt Naidoo. She said that the deceased’s firearm and cellphone were still in the vehicle. “He was shot several times as the vehicle was riddled with bullet holes. Police reports indicate that the deceased is a key witness in a murder case being investigated by Organised crime and he was released from protective custody prior to the shooting. A case of murder is being investigated.” <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Members of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) and KZN VIP attended the scene of the fatal shooting and RUSA boss, Prem Balram, said, “Reaction Officers arrived on scene a few minutes after receiving calls of the shooting. Upon arrival, they were informed that the occupants of a white SUV opened fire on Naicker’s vehicle. He was declared deceased by paramedics a short while later. Naicker was said to have been operating as Gypsy Towlines.” Netcare 911’s Shawn Herbst said, “At 10:45pm on Sunday night, Netcare 911 responded to reports of a shooting on Sunford Drive in Phoenix. Reports from the scene indicated that a tow truck driver, a male believed to be in his forties, had sustained multiple gunshot wounds when he was shot while in his vehicle. Medics assessed the patient and found that he had no signs of life and was sadly declared deceased on the scene.” According to media reports there have been previous attempts to execute Naicker at his Phoenix residence. It was revealed that Naicker’s business partner, Lazarus ‘Fees’ Naidoo,41, was shot outside Naicker’s home on Sunford Drive in April 2018. Naidoo, a father of two, was shot seven times in the back and died whilst he was being rushed to hospital. It was alleged that Naidoo had received death threats from a rival towing company from Phoenix prior to his murder. The four men arrested for his murder, Shaffique Cassim,24, Abdul Latiff,37, Maheer Naidu,34, and Maxwell Nkabinde,27 are still in police custody after their bail was denied again in August. It came to light that some of the accused were on the payroll of slain Bloods gang boss and tow truck operator, Kalvin Periasamy. The notorious Periasamy was executed in the Gateway Shopping Mall parking lot in June this year. He was said to be implicated in Naidoo’s killing. This year in April, tow truck driver, Asheel Ramdass was in his vehicle parked at Sunford Drive, when a white Etios stopped and the occupants opened fire towards the car. Ramdass died at the scene. Police said the Toyota Etios was later recovered and it was discovered stolen at Sydenham within the month of April.  Phoenix Community Police Forum chairman, Umesh Singh, said, “This is shocking. Another cold-blooded killing with the victim’s life taken almost outside his home. We urge police to fast track the investigations into the tow truck murders. Another family is plunged into mourning. These killings must stop.”