Controversial new law enforced by the president President Cyril Ramaphosa has signed several new bills into law last week, including the controversial ‘Internet Censorship Bill’. The new laws include an amendment to the Films and Publications Act, which makes the distribution of hate speech, child pornography and revenge porn illegal. The National Assembly has officially passed the Films and Publications Amendment Bill. The bill aims to introduce a number of changes including harsher rules to protect children from disturbing and harmful content, and to regulate the online distribution of content such as films and games. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Some of the other notable changes include: • Hate speech: The bill states that any person who knowingly distributes in any medium, including the internet and social media any film, game or publication which amounts to propaganda for war, incites imminent violence, or advocates hate speech, shall be guilty of an offence. This includes a possible fine not exceeding R150 000 and/or imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years. • Revenge porn: Under the bill, any person who knowingly distributes private sexual photographs and films without prior consent and with intention to cause the said individual harm shall be guilty of an offence and liable upon conviction. This includes a possible fine not exceeding R150 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and/or to both a fine and imprisonment not exceeding two years. Where the individual is identified or identifiable in said photographs and films, this punishment rises to a R300 000 fine and/or imprisonment not exceeding four years. • ISP requirements: If an internet access provider has knowledge that its services are being used for the hosting or distribution of child pornography, propaganda for war, incitement of imminent violence or advocating hatred based on an identifiable group characteristic, it shall immediately remove this content, or be subject to a fine. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> Is censorship imminent? Many of the amendments have come under severe scrutiny from both people in the media industry as well as members of the public. There are growing concerns that this bill could and will be used as a means for censorship of online content. Further, the Film and Publication Board (FPB) now has the power to classify and potentially ban content distributed through the Internet, including:
• Films • Games • Newspapers, books, periodicals, pamphlets, posters or other printed matter • Any writing of typescript that has in any manner been duplicated • Any drawing, illustration or painting • And print, photograph, engraving or lithograph • And record, magnetic tape, soundtrack or any other object in or on which sound has been recorded for reproduction <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> • Computer software that is not a film • The cover or packaging of a film • Any figure, carving, statue or model • Any message or communication, (including visual presentations) placed on any distributed network including, but not limited to, the Internet What are your legal rights when your personal data gets leaked in South Africa? South Africa recently suffered its largest data leak to date with, conservatively, an estimated 30 million South Africans’ personal information becoming publicly available. The gravity of the leak and the risks associated with the sensitive information that has been imparted from it, cannot be overestimated. It has exposed most of the country’s population to threats of identity fraud and related crimes. Reports indicate that the leak emanated from prominent real estate agencies that operate throughout the country and used the database to derive information about prospective buyers and sellers. From the leak’s exposé, two things are abundantly clear. One, South Africans are very vulnerable to the non-consensual processing of their personal information and two, personal information is often not kept securely and can be easily accessed. Under South Africa’s current laws, people are often left without a practical way to enforce their rights. However, once the long-delayed Protection of Personal Information Act (POPI) comes into force, people in South Africa, including companies will finally have a practical tool at their disposal to protect their personal information. The current positionSouth Africa’s Constitution and its common law recognise the right to privacy for all people (including corporations). As a result, people who violate another person’s right of privacy can be held liable. Privacy (in these instances) typically refers to the right of a person to choose, within reason, the information they wish to keep hidden from the public. A person’s right to privacy is typically infringed in one of two ways:
• When a person deliberately intrudes upon another’s personal affairs without permission or justification; or • When a person deliberately shares another’s personal information without permission or justification. South Africa’s new “revenge porn” lawsA vile, disgusting act of retribution has finally been outlawed in South Africa. But what exactly is revenge porn, and how can it put you behind bars? For those unfamiliar with the term, it refers to those who maliciously share naked, nude or sexually explicit photos of someone else without their permission. It can be distributed via social media, text messages, and emails or even uploaded onto pornographic websites. The intention is usually to humiliate someone, or profit from intimate multimedia sent by an ex or a former partner, thus the term “revenge porn”. <br />
     (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});<br /> What you can be jailed for in South Africa? The new laws take these offences extremely seriously. It marks a division in South  Africa’s modern history, and those who actively try to defame someone by making  their private life public could land themselves in a lot of trouble. Here’s what you can now be jailed for: • Knowingly distributing private sexual photographs or films without the prior consent of any individual featured. • Sharing these types of photos publicly with the intention to cause harm or distress. • Uploading private sexual photographs where the person can be clearly identified, or is named in any accompanying text. Disclaimer: This article is correct as at the time of going to press, however, it is no substitute for a consultation with an attorney. TEL: 031 402 0356 EM: luckylaw@rocketmail.comconveyancing.luckylaw@gmail.com or litigation.luckylaw@gmail.com